CZE Event: March 1968: End Censorship Laws
“The response to the decision to not suppress public criticism of President Antonin Novotny has led to wider discussions on political reform and openness. Indeed, the support for reform and openness has seen public rallies emerge across the country in support of First Secretary Alexander Dubcek. Now Dubcek must decide if he will begin the process to abolish the strict censorship laws or roll back the public mood by cracking down on these public rallies and publications. Announcing the intention to end censorship laws will garner Dubcek greater public support, allow him to bring more reform policies to the people and strengthen his supporters in the party. However, to instead crackdown on this new openness will alienate the population and his own party supporters, but it would likely assuage concerns from Moscow and among party hardliners.” 
Two Options: “Begin Ending Censorship Laws” (will immediately trigger President Novotny resignation event) or “Crackdown on Reformers” (WILL END CHAIN)
CZE Event: March 1968: President Novotny Resigns 
“The recent decision by Alexander Dubcek, the First Secretary of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSC), to begin ending censorship laws has greatly angered hardline party members, including President Antonin Novotny who has announced his resignation. For Novotny and other hardliners within the KSC, the opening of political space and media along with other reforms threatens to destroy Party unity and the communist order in Czechoslovakia. Dubcek subsequently offered General Ludvik Svoboda the Presidency and he accepted. President Svoboda announced he would support the reform efforts and his appointment is being lauded across the country due to his highly decorated military career. Politically, President Svoboda survived post-war purges and is seen as a national hero among Czechs and Slovaks.” 
One option: “The people welcome the new President”
CZE Event: April 1968: Dubcek unveils Action Programme
“In a landmark advance of reform policies, First Secretary Alexander Dubcek announced the beginning of what he calls the Action Programme. The Programme envisions a gradual liberalization of Czechoslovakia by increasing freedom of press, speech, movement. Economic reform is also being discussed along with an acceptance that multiparty politics may eventually return to the country. Dubcek noted the previous communist policies were not flawed as they were necessary to end the bourgeois influence and post-war instability. Now, Dubcek and reformers believe a socialist society with a positive relationship with the state is the main objective of the Action Programme. Although Dubcek did not criticize communism and stated he would work with fellow communist parties, Moscow is said to be viewing these developments with much suspicion. They are especially concerned about Dubcek stating the Action Programme will better adapt communist to Czechoslovakian society and offer a socialism with a human face.”
One option: “Hail the socialist society”
CZE Event: 1st May 1968: Enthusiastic May Day Celebration
“Public enthusiasm and support for the reforming government in Czechoslovakia has seen record crowds gather across the country for annual May Day Celebration. The Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSC) under First Secretary Alexander Dubcek currently enjoys massive public support following the launch of his Action Programme. Many in Czechoslovakia support the new openness in public discourse and continued political reforms. The reduction of censorship laws and opening of political space has seen unprecedent political participation. Although the party remains in power and incredibly popular, opponents to the reform and other communist states are concerned overtime these reforms will lead to the re-emergence of non-communist parties in Czechoslovakia. Regardless, the Prague Spring is in full effect and the people are enjoying it.”
One option: “A May Day to remember”
CZE Event: Late May 1968: Dubcek visits Moscow
“First Secretary Alexander Dubcek recently concluded an official visit to Moscow. Dubcek has taken effective control of Czechoslovakia and the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSC). Under his stewardship he has overseen a liberalization of Czechoslovakian society through his reformist Action Programme. Although he has tried hard to emphasize the policy as a natural continuation of communist ideology, many in Moscow and across the communist world find the opening of society as a major threat. They are especially concerned with Dubcek tolerating debates regarding the re-establishment of non-communist parties in the country. Soviet leadership emphasized these concerns to Dubcek and after a tense series of meetings, Dubcek returned to Prague. Although Dubcek stated the visit as an exchange of ideas, it is clear ties between Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union is strained and the Soviets will be watching events closely.”
One option: “Moscow was especially cold”
CZE Event: June 1968: Censorship Officially Abolished
“First Secretary Alexander Dubcek upon taking his post began the process of relaxing censorship laws. These efforts have been lauded across Czechoslovakia and its traditionally vibrant intellectual circles have been rejuvenated by the recent opening of political space. Today, the process of abolishing censorship laws has been officially completed and the government announced the end of censorship in Czechoslovakia. The government was quick to note the abolishment of censorship did not mean anarchy, but a confirmation of the communist development society had undergone. The government does not expect people to discuss disruptive ideas or challenge the continued development of the state by the party. Ambassadors from other communist states are said to have expressed their reservations at this latest development to the Czechoslovakian president.”
One option: “Let the people speak”
CZE Event: June 1968: Publication of Manifesto
“Leading journalist Ludvik Vaculik recently published a manifesto titled The Two Thousand Words which was signed by leading artists and intellectuals. The manifesto argued the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia (KSC) had led to a decline for the country and the policy of openness must continue. It did not call for a revolution but a more democratization of society under the KSC. Controversially it also advocated an acceleration to liberalization and the re-establishment of pre-revolution socialist parties. The manifesto has angered the conservative KSC base who claim the document is a consequence to the Action Programme of First Secretary Alexander Dubcek. Under immense pressure from conservatives, Dubcek and leading KSC members have quickly denounced the document but its impact is said to have raised concern across the European communist world.”
One option: “We condemn this manifesto”
CZE Event: July 1968: Soviet Military Exercises near Border
“In southern Germany, near the Czechoslovakian border, Soviet-led Warsaw Pact forces are conducting large military exercises. Newspapers in Prague noted the military deployment lacked any participation from Czechoslovakian forces and are occurring before scheduled talks between the Czechoslovakian and Soviet government over the recent liberal reforms. Many citizens have grown concerned that the exercises are a dress rehearsal to a Soviet intervention and state the government should prepare to resist. However, the Czechoslovakian government has given no indication it will begin any military response and, in a statement, reiterated its bond with the Soviet Union and its allies. In addition, Soviet military officers have also been visiting in larger numbers. The Soviet military visits are also seen as an effort by the Soviets to prepare and scout in case of an intervention.”
One option: “Nothing to see here”
Soviet Event: July 1968: Meeting with Czechoslovakian Leaders
“Senior Soviet leaders, including the Soviet Secretary General, have met with First Secretary Dubcek and President Svoboda of Czechoslovakia. The Soviet leaders urged Czechoslovakia to end its liberalization program and confirm to the Moscow communist line. They noted liberalization has led to a growing movement demanding multiparty elections and anarchy. They suggest if order is not restored than communism itself may collapse in the streets of Prague. However, the Czechoslovakian leaders noted the popularity of their programs and the strengthening of party popularity among the people. Instead of capitulating to Soviet demands, they instead suggested the Soviets treat them as a model to reform the party and rejuvenate support for communism. The Soviet Secretary General must decide to respond by either condemning the Czechoslovakian model or instead bring it to Moscow and initiate a small liberal reform program to test its validity.”
Two Options: “Condemn liberal reforms” [Triggers CZE Response to Conference] or “Bring liberal reforms to Moscow” [INITIATES A SMALL LIBERAL REFORM PATH FOR THE SOVIET UNION]
CZE Event: July 1968: Results of Soviet Meeting
“Senior Soviet leaders met with senior members of our government in Slovakia over a two-day period. The Soviet leaders were quite adamant in their criticism of our Action Programme and demanding we reverse liberalization. They claimed the country was undergoing anarchy and our party cannot control the spread of dangerous ideas. Our leaders defended its policies and insisted our liberalization is the best approach for Czechoslovakia. In the end a result could not be achieved but it is clear the Soviets were demanding we end our reforms. First Secretary Alexander Dubcek must now decide to end the Action Programme and resign or continue the process and refuse Soviet demands. The Soviet ambassador awaits our final response to the Soviet demands.
Two options: “Refuse Soviet demands” or “Accept Soviet Demands” [WILL END PRAGUE SPRING]
SOV Event: August 1968: Brezhnev Doctrine and Invasion Approval
“Secretary General Leonid Brezhnev unveiled his new doctrine to Soviet leadership. The details are planned to be published next month in the Pravda. The Soviet Union has decided that any threats to socialist rule in any communist states within its orbit in Europe will be a threat against all that must be resolved by any means necessary. The dangerous reforms in Czechoslovakia are reaching anarchic levels and the communist party there is on the verge of losing control. Brezhnev received a letter from conservative communists in Czechoslovakia begging Soviet aid. After consulting leaders of Bulgaria, Poland, and Hungary, Brezhnev has approved the military invasion of Czechoslovakia to restore order. The invasion will be the first instance of the Brezhnev doctrine in action.”
One option: “The invasion begins” [Triggers Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia events]
Global Event: August 1968: Invasion of Czechoslovakia
“During the night, overwhelming military force from four Warsaw Pact nations, the Soviet Union, Bulgaria, Poland, and Hungary crossed the border into Czechoslovakia. The Czechoslovakian government ordered the military and people to not resist and military forces have remained in their barracks. The Soviet government announced it was forced to act after receiving requests from Czechoslovakian communists who feared the government was leading the country to disaster. Citizens in Prague came out to protest the invaders but within a day the country had been secured by the Warsaw Pact. However, the people have engaged in large scale non-violent protests against occupying troops. It is expected that the reforms initiated by the government will be rolled back and conservative communists restored into positions of power. Internationally there has been a lot of backlash over the Soviet invasion, even among some communist states who see the act as a violation of sovereignty.”
One option: “The Spring has come to an end”
CZE Event: August 1968: Invasion of Czechoslovakia 
“During the night, overwhelming military force from four Warsaw Pact nations, the Soviet Union, Bulgaria, Poland, and Hungary crossed the border into Czechoslovakia. The Czechoslovakian government ordered the military and people to not resist and military forces have remained in their barracks. The Soviet government announced it was forced to act after receiving requests from Czechoslovakian communists who feared the government was leading the country to disaster. Citizens in Prague came out to protest the invaders but within a day the country had been secured by the Warsaw Pact. It is expected that the reforms initiated by the government will be rolled back and conservative communists restored into positions of power. However, the people have engaged in large scale non-violent protests against occupying troops. The reformers led by First Secretary Alexander Dubcek are said to be in discussions with Soviet forces and are cooperating. It appears the Czechoslovakian experiment with liberalism has come to an end.”
One option: “The Spring has come to an end”
CZE Event: August 1968: Censorship Reintroduced
“In the aftermath of the invasion, First Secretary Alexander Dubcek, who had overseen the liberalization of communist rule remained in power as the Soviets did not wish to turn the non-violent protests into open insurrection. Indeed, the Soviets have agreed to a moderate package of limited reforms called the Moscow Protocols. However, Dubcek has been forced to reintroduce censorship in Czechoslovakia. This decision has now ended the liberalization of media and public assembly which had galvanized the people of Prague over the last few months. Leading journalists, writers, and intellectuals must now return to the government line or risk being silenced, fired, or arrested by the government. The conservative communists are now firmly in power. The act confirms with the Moscow Protocol which stated socialism must be restored to its original form in the country.”
One option: “An end to anarchy”
CZE Event: October 1968: Czechoslovakia becomes Federal Republic
“Although the Prague Spring has come to a sudden end following the Soviet invasion, one of the goals of the reformers was achieved today. Czechoslovakia has officially become a Federal Republic, restoring what many in Czechoslovakia believe is their democratic legacy. Censorship remains as has the rollback on many of the more liberal aspects of the Prague Spring, however, the Soviet Union has conceded this to the reformers. The Soviet Union was largely surprised by the non-violent resistance they faced following the invasion and although restoring socialism was a principle aim, they have agreed to allow this limited concession to the people of Czechoslovakia.” 
One option: “Something is better than nothing”
CZE Event: April 1969: Dubcek Replaced as First Secretary
“First Secretary Alexander Dubcek, the architect of liberalism and the Prague Spring, was removed from his post today. Although the Soviets had sought to end his rule after the invasion, the amount of non-violent protests and genuine support for his reforms pushed them to instead keep Dubcek in power, though under close supervision. He oversaw the restoration of censorship laws and the rollback of his Action Programme but now the Soviets feel confident they can remove him from power. He will be replaced by the hardline communist Gustav Husak who enjoys the blessings of Moscow. Husak is expected to usher in a more autocratic line and ensure the forces of openness and liberalization released by reforms of Dubcek do not pose any further threat to communist rule in the country. Many in Czechoslovakia are said to be saddened by the removal of Dubcek.”
