l_english:
 treaty_san_francisco.1.d:0 "Today the San Francisco Peace Treaty was officially signed by 48 nations between Japan and the Allied Powers. This treaty serves to officially end Japan's position as an imperial power, to allocate compensation to Allied civilians and former prisoners of war who had suffered Japanese war crimes during World War II, and to end the American-led Allied post-war occupation of Japan and return sovereignty. This treaty made extensive use of the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to enunciate the Allies' goals. From the start of the conference the Soviet Union expressed vigorous and vocal opposition to the draft treaty text prepared by the United States. This treaty also introduced the problem of the legal status of Taiwan due to its lack of specificity as to what country Taiwan was to be surrendered, and hence some supporters of Taiwan independence argue that sovereignty of Taiwan is still undetermined. Nevertheless, the island nation of Japan has become independent, with rising challenges and prospects."
 jap_startup.1.t:0 "Land of the Rising Sun"
 jap_startup.1.d:0 ""
 jap_startup.1.a:0 "Japan will rise again..."
 japan.1.d:0 "Ever since the Japanese defeat at the end of the Second World War, the country has been under American military occupation and allowed no armed forces. However, with the rising tensions of the Cold War the American government has taken increasing steps towards developing Japan as a Capitalist ally in the East. With American forces facing engagements in the Korean War, Japan's incredibly exposed and vulnerable position has not gone unnoticed. Leftist and Communist-aligned strikes and demonstrations have also inflamed the situation and the United States clearly now sees it prudent to allow Japan to form its own military again. The Japanese government has now officially authorized the creation of a national military, however its role is to be limited specifically to self defense and will be tightly monitored by the US, still wary from the World War merely a decade prior. No matter the restrictions, the creation of the Japanese military helps reinforce the precarious Allied position in Asia, whilst highlighting Japan's new found national sovereignty."
 japan.1.a:0 "It was neccessary for our defense."
 japan.2.d:0 ""
 japan.2.a:0 "Go beyond!"
 japan.2.b:0 "Impressive."
 japan.3.d:0 "Japan has undergone three major waves of municipal consolidation since the Meiji Restoration. The first wave, often referred to as the Great Meiji Restoration, came in 1888 and 1889, coinciding with the introduction to Japan of the modern local government system. The number of municipalities was reduced from 71,314 to 15,859 through this first round of mergers. The new proposed 'Great Shōwa Consolidation' will help the nation’s efforts to cope with the changes brought about by the so-called post-war reforms as well as fully utilize the small land area of the island country for prospects. The number of municipalities is planned to be slashed from 9,868 to 3,472."
 japan.3.a:0 "Great!"