##India 70s
add_namespace = India_Emergency

 news_event = {
	id = India_Emergency.21
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = India_Emergency.21"}
	title = "[GetNewspaperHeader]India Declared a Socialist Republic"
	desc = India_Emergency.21.d
	picture = GFX_India_Emergency_21

	is_triggered_only = yes
	major = yes

	option = {
		name = "Interesting"
	}
}


India 1970s Events
#IND_Foreign_Policy
add_namespace = Sikkim_Accension

country_event = {
	id = Sikkim_Accension.1
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Sikkim_Accension.1"}
	title = "Sikkim Party Appeals to India"
	desc = Sikkim_Accension.1.d
	picture = GFX_Sikkim_Accension_1

	is_triggered_only = yes	

    option = {
        name = "Accept the peoples wishes"
        SKK = {
            country_event = {
                id = Sikkim_Accension.2
                days = 5
            }
            country_event = {
                id = Sikkim_Accension.3
                days = 12
            }
        }
        country_event = {
            id = Sikkim_Accension.2
            days = 5
        }
        country_event = {
            id = Sikkim_Accension.3
            days = 12
        }
        country_event = {
            id = Sikkim_Accension.4
            days = 43
        }
    }
    option = {
        name = "Sikkim is an independent state"
    }
}
country_event = {
	id = Sikkim_Accension.2
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Sikkim_Accension.2"}
	title = "Indian Troops Secure Gangtok"
	desc = Sikkim_Accension.2.d
	picture = GFX_Sikkim_Accension_2

	is_triggered_only = yes	
    option = {
        name = "To protect the people of Sikkim"
    }
}
country_event = {
	id = Sikkim_Accension.3
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Sikkim_Accension.3"}
	title = "Referendum in Sikkim"
	desc = Sikkim_Accension.3.d
	picture = GFX_Sikkim_Accension_3

	is_triggered_only = yes	
    option = {
        name = "The monarchy abolished!"
    }
}
country_event = {
	id = Sikkim_Accension.4
 immediate = {log = "[GetDateText]: [Root.GetTag]: id = Sikkim_Accension.4"}
	title = "Constitution Amended for Sikkim Statehood"
	desc = Sikkim_Accension.4.d
	picture = GFX_Sikkim_Accension_4

	is_triggered_only = yes	
    option = {
        name = "A new state!"
        annex_country = {
            target = SKK
            transfer_troops = yes
        }
    }
}
#IND_The_Indian_Economy

New Industries in Bombay or Madras? (event from IND_New_Industries_In_Madras_Or_Bombay)
"A federal development board is debating whether to promote industries in either Bombay or Madras. Both are major cities and their national politicians are putting immense pressure on the Prime Minister to push for their city. Bombay and Madras are both historical port cities with immense cultural and political influence. Selecting Bombay would strengthen the Prime Minister and his relationship to the powerful business and film industry. Supporting Madras would endear the Prime Minister to southern India and its ties to other major Indian Ocean trading posts."
-Give it to Bombay (3 year spirit "Bombay Business Boom" gives small economic bonuses, Bombay gets a few factories)
-Give it to Madres (5 year spirit "Indian Ocean Trade" boosts trade relations among big Indian Ocean bordering states)

New Steel Works in Delhi or Bangalore? (event from IND_Steel_Works_Delhi_Bangalore)
"A federal development board is considering where to invest in new steel factories in the country. The two cities are Delhi and Bangalore. Delhi on paper appears ideal considering its history as a major industrial center and location to the capital. However, Bangalore is a historically vital city of southern India. Building the steel works there would solidify the relationship between northern and southern India. The Prime Minister must decide which site to build."
-Give it to Delhi (add steel factories one infrastructure, 3 year spirit "Delhi Growth" small boost to infra production)
-Give it to Bangalore (add steel factories, 3 year spirit "Bangalore Industrial boom" small boost to factory construction)

New Banking Hub Established in Gujrat or Hyderabad? (event from IND_New_Banking_Hub_In_Gujrat_Or_Hyderabad)
"The financial regulators and Finance Minister have approached the Prime Minister. They note the rapid growth in banking the country and a need to promote for financial institutions. Gujrat and Hyderabad are being touted as potential locations to encourage the establishment of new banks and financial markets. Gujrat is historically a major trading hub and such an investment could lead to a boon in trading to the middle east. Investing in Hyderabad would open opportunities to locals in the region to access financial institutions. The Prime Minister must decide."
-Establish in Gujrat (financial hub built in Gujrat, 5 year spirit "Middle East Trade" boost trade ties with Gulf states and Iraq)
-Establish in Hyderabad (financial hub in Hyderabad, 3 year spirit "Hyderabad Economic Boom" infra boost)

(If player selects all north Indian locations, gets this event) South Indian Neglect
"The federal government is facing intense backlash from newspapers and regional political parties in southern India. They are writing reports emphasizing the tendency of the federal government to invest in north Indian states. Many of the more aggressive writers are claiming south India is becoming a semi-colony to the needs of north Indians. The Prime Minister has denied these accusations and his political allies in the south are speaking out. However, it will take a long time for the Indian government to rebuild its ties with the people of south India."
-Oh no (10 year spirit "South Indian Neglect" drop in stability/war support, slight negative impact on economy/research)

#Kashmir Situation

Assessing the Situation (event from IND_Assessing_The_Situation)
"The situation in Kashmir remains in limbo. Our forces do remain in control of key areas, however, the Pakistanis continue to occupy key areas of the territory. They are also adamant in their ambitions to steal the entire province and are fomenting unrest among Kashmiris. Senior defence, political, and intelligence leaders recently met to discuss the situation. One option is to focus on the internal security in order to prevent potential uprisings, especially those sponsored by Pakistan. Such a focus would also expand our base of support among the Kashmiris. The second option is to consider a limited offensive across the border. Such an action could improve our position on the border and demonstrate to the Pakistanis the futility of pursuing a military solution in the future."
-Focus on Internal Security (take to path and completes IND_Focus_On_Internal_Security)
-Consider Offensive Actions (takes to path and completes IND_Consider_Offensive_Actions)

Arrest Srinagar Activists?
"The police and intelligence agents in Srinagar identified several key student and political agitators either advocating for Kashmiri independence or unification with Pakistan. These agitators regularly organize meetings that occasionally turn into public demonstrations. One option is to arrest these agitators, this could curtail any protests in the foreseeable future. However, it might backfire and provoke more unrest. The other option is to just keep tabs on the protestors and accept the current rate of protests, intervening in ways to prevent them from expanding."
-Carry out the arrests (50 percent chance leads to "Kashmiri Protests Die Down" in 3 months or 50 percent chance leads to "Kashmiri Protests Intensify" in 3 months)
-Leave them be (gain 5 year spirit "Small Kashmiri Protests" reduces compliance by a small amount)

Kashmiri Protests Die Down
"The recent arrest of public agitators in Kashmir has had a profound impact on unrest in the region. The lack of leadership has caused a decline in organized meetings and public protests. It appears the remaining hardcore activists are unable to spread their message to the people. We do expect a new crop of leaders to eventually emerge, but this will take time and it appears our operation has completely uprooted the protest infrastructure in Srinagar. The arrests also uncovered that some of the leaders were sponsored by Pakistani intelligence."
-Excellent (gain 3 year spirit, "Kashmir Calm" improve compliance) 

Kashmiri Protests Intensify
"Following Friday prayers, thousands took to the street in Srinagar for protests over the arrests of leading agitators in the city. Our operation to arrest these agitators did not result in a decapitation of protest leadership. Instead the remaining agitators, developed a plan to spread word of the arrests and use the Friday prayer sermons as a venue to encourage unrest. The protests are much larger in scale than previously and have garnered attention from the international media. The Pakistanis are using this to spread their own propaganda. We will likely have to release some of the agitators to calm the tensions."
-Oh no (gain 5 year spirit "Large Kashmiri Protests" compliance decreases)

Kashmiri Unrest (Pakistan event, from IND_Launch_Broadcasts_Over_Border)
-Damn it (Pakistan gains 5 year spirit "Kashmiri Agitation"

India Buying Mountain Equipment (Pakistan event, from focus IND_Purchase_Mountain_Warfare_Equipment)
"One of our procurement officers abroad, while visiting a producer of mountain scaling equipment for some purchases, noticed several pieces of equipment with Indian military markings. Upon quietly inquiring with some of the employees, he discovered that India was making a substantial order of mountain warfare equipment. We do not know what this means, but the size of the order and timetable indicates the Indians may be plotting some misadventure. Perhaps on its Himalaya borders or in Kashmir. Some in the GHQ are urging a redeployment of forces to the Kashmir front just in case, however, other generals argue such an overreaction may leave other fronts open to Indian aggression."

Defence Meeting in Delhi (event from IND_Defence_Meeting_In_Delhi)
"In a secret gathering of the top political, defence, and intelligence officers, discussion was held on what to do in Kashmir. The military presented that they had made the necessary logistical preparations for a campaign in Kashmir and our intelligence on the front was very high. They stated the decision now rested with the Prime Minister on whether military action is warranted. Local offensives could prove a powerful demonstration to Pakistan of our resolve, however, a failed operation could see the Pakistanis gain territory and prestige. If the Pakistanis appear too dug in or look like they may be considering their own offensive, the current operation can be transitioned from offensive to defensive. We must make a final decision."
-leave the situation (8 year spirit "Kashmir Vigilance" improves defensive stats)
-Prepare for local operations (in 2 months India launches border war, event "India Launches Operations in Kashmir")

India Launches Operations in Kashmir (Pakistan/India)
"The Indian Army launched offensives in Kashmir. The Indian government released a statement emphasizing the operations were limited and meant to punish Pakistan for its continued interference and provocations in Kashmir. The Pakistan government was quick to condemn the Indian attack and promised its forces would deliver a befitting reply to the Indian attack. The international community will watch the situation closely as there are fears any fighting between the two could quickly escalate into a general war."
-Situation deteriorating (starts border war)

Indian Forces Make Gains in Kashmir (Indian event if India wins border war)
"Our government announced it had successfully wrestled key border territories from Pakistani forces along the in Kashmir. The Indian Army recently launched its limited operations in response to Pakistani efforts to foment uprisings and to demonstrate the futility of military force for their forces. Parliament has already sent a note of congratulations to the government and military for its actions. The Pakistanis are dismissing reports they had suffered a defeat, but our troops are clearly in control of some key border areas. The international community is satisfied that the conflict did not escalate. The Indian people will view this success with great admiration."
-Excellent (gain some territories along the LOC in Kashmir, Pakistan gets event, "Setbacks in Kashmir")

Setbacks in Kashmir (Pakistan event)
"The Indian Army launched a nefarious scheme that culminated in their unprovoked aggression along the Kashmir border. Our forces fought bravely and with discipline, but were unfortunately pushed back in several sectors. We will condemn the Indian aggression internationally and minimize the losses to our people, but it is clear that the Indians stand in control of some new territories along the border. We must reassess our military situation and political direction in order to retake these territories and ensure no further acts of Indian aggression occur in the future."

Indian Forces Fail in Kashmir (Indian event if India loses border war)
"We have directed the Foreign Ministry and Defence Ministry to minimize its comments following confirmation from the Army our forces were pushed back slightly in Kashmir. Our plan to punish the Pakistanis and improve the military situation in Kashmir through a limited offensive failed. In the ensuing Pakistani counterattack, their forces managed to take some territory. Our plan has completely backfired, the Pakistanis and their agents in Kashmir will be emboldened for further aggression. The Indian military has pledged to be especially vigilant. We can expect public backlash and parliamentary anger over this failed operation, more significantly, the military situation in Kashmir has shifted."
-Oh no (Pakistan gains some territory along the LOC, Pakistan gets event "Indian Aggression in Kashmir Halted")

Indian Aggression in Kashmir Halted (Pakistan event)
"The Indian Army sought to use trickery and brute force to drive back our troops in Kashmir. Despite their efforts and surprise, our brave soldiers not only stopped their advance but also counterattacked, taking some key strategic positions along the border. We are already publishing pictures across the media of Pakistanis officers and soldiers posing on positions once occupied by the Indian Army. One advisor proposed a bold plan, we can offer to return the newly captured territory if India agrees to implement the UN Resolutions on Kashmir. India may now consider the military situation unsustainable and accept. The other option is to simply hold the territory and prepare for a future operation to completely liberate Kashmir."
-Ask India to implement UN Resolutions (India gets event, "Pakistan Offers Land for UN Resolutions")
-Keep our victories

Pakistan Offers Land for UN Resolutions (India event)
"The Pakistani government has offered to return the territory it seized in our recent border conflict In Kashmir in exchange for the implementation of the UN Resolutions on Kashmir. Hardline officials are urging us to reject the proposal, claiming we will be able to retake the lands in the future and an open vote would likely go against us. However, more moderate leaders believe this may be an opportunity to resolve our dispute with Pakistan in Kashmir. They believe we should trust our friends among the Kashmiris to vote with us and the implementation of the resolutions would likely not result in the complete loss of Kashmir. Another group of officials simply believe we should reject the proposal as that would set a precedent that states can blackmail us with territory to achieve goals. We must decide how to respond."
-Implement UN Resolutions (starts the UN Resolution chain from the 60s events)
-We will not be bullied

#Post Simla
Sheikh Accords (event from IND_Sheikh_Accords)
"Prominent Kashmiri leader Sheikh Abdullah and Prime Minister [IND.GetLeader] signed an agreement called the Sheikh Accords. The agreement comes following the recent military victory of India over Pakistan. With the strategic balance of power now turning firmly in the favor of India, the Kashmiri leader decided he had to reach an agreement. The agreement calls for the implementation of constitutional amendments to begin formally integrating Kashmir into India. The first area of Kashmir to be brought into the fold as an Indian state will be Jammu. The path to formal annexation and integration has begun for Kashmir. The Pakistanis and Kashmiri nationalists are denouncing the agreement as a capitulation by Sheikh Abdullah."
-Kashmir accepts the reality (Jammu is made a core of India, in six months, India gets event "Kashmir Liberation Front Forms")

Kashmir Liberation Front Forms
"Amanullah Khan, a UK based Kashmiri nationalist, recently founded a new organization called the Kashmir Liberation Front in Birmingham. Khan is a noted nationalist, having been a part of an airplane hijacking of an Indian Airlines flight before escaping to England. He is revered by the large Kashmiri community in the country. The group is quickly gaining in popularity and is setting up chapters across Western Europe, Pakistan, the United States, and the Gulf. The organization currently is not engaged in direct conflict with the Indian state but is growing, organizing, and campaigning for Kashmiri political rights. It is only a matter of time before the Indian government will have to deal with this group directly as its publications are gaining popularity in Srinagar and the Kashmir Valley."

#IND_Raj_Narain_Verdict

Raj Narain Verdict (event from IND_Raj_Narain_Verdict)
"Judge Jagmohanlal Sinha issued a verdict in the State of Utter Pradesh v. Raj Narain case. Raj Narain, who lost his election for the lower house of parliament to Prime Minister Indira Gandhi appealed against the huge electoral victory of Gandhi. He alleges Gandhi and the Congress Party used government resources, bribery, and other means to ensure her two to one victory over him. The judge, in a stunning verdict, agreed with Narain and has voided the victory of Gandhi. Indira Gandhi is barred from taking the premiership. The judge has ordered the Congress Party to pick a new premier within 20 days. The opposition and Congress believe if the verdict is accepted, new elections must be held. Indira Gandhi could accept the verdict, or she could appeal to the Supreme Court, which will allow her to remain Prime Minister. Her advisers believe if she appeals, she should declare a state of emergency to prevent instability and ensure the neutrality of the courts."
-Government falls, fresh elections (launches election event and opens that tree)
-Declare emergency (launches next focus)

Emergency Declared (event from IND_Emergency_Declared, spirit "Emergency" severe penalties in terms of war support, stability and spirit "National Strikes" which hurts the economy)
"Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and her government gave permission for the President to proclaim a state of emergency across India. The government cited economic crisis caused by recent strikes over the recent political turmoil. The threat of renewed conflict with Pakistan was also cited as a reason for the emergency. This is an unprecedented change and is already causing opposition politicians to call for more strikes and resistance. The Prime Minister is accused of proclaiming the emergency to prevent her removal of power due to the Raj Narain verdict."

Bring the Courts to Heel (event from IND_Bring_The_Courts_To_Heel)
"The courts recently confirmed the State of Emergency proclaimed by the Indira Gandhi government. Judges who did raise concern were superseded by pro-government judges quickly elevated above them. The courts are also approving arrest warrants by the government under the emergency. The continued effort of Indira Gandhi to replace and stack judges in her favor is being greatly criticized by the media and opposition. Regardless, the strengthening of the government control over the judiciary gives Gandhi immense power."
-Good (negative impacts of "Emergency" slightly reduced)

Proclaim Security Crisis (event from IND_Proclaim_Security_Crisis)
"The Indian government has argued that there is an emerging security crisis necessitating the expansion and continuation of emergency rule. Indira Gandhi argues the rise in strikes and dissent, along with security concerns regarding Pakistan mean that India is facing an internal emergency along with a international one. The Prime Minister has requested the President to extend the emergency every six months until the situation has stabilized and democracy can flourish."
-Make the announcement

Public Becoming Convinced of Need
"Despite vehement criticism from the opposition, it appears the government argument regarding the need for an emergency is gaining traction among the public. In recent weeks, more pro-government editorials and reports on the escalating security crisis are being widely read by the people. Indira Gandhi and her government appear to be stronger than ever, with extensive powers. The public is also expressed satisfaction with what they see is the arrest of corrupt politicians and officials by the government. The opposition will have to re-adjust its approach on confronting the government."
-Excellent (negative impacts of "Emergency" slightly reduced)

Major Newspapers Condemn Government
"The major newspapers across India have launched a sustained editorial campaign criticizing the Indira Gandhi government. They point out the emergency appears to be the result of political setbacks not a real need to protect the nation. Many accuse the government of killing the democratic spirit of India. More troubling for the government is the publishing of opposition condemnations of the government. If the public supports the opposition, the Indira Gandhi government faces major challenges in maintaining the emergency."
-Oh no (negative impacts of "Emergency" slightly increased)

Inform the Army (event from IND_Inform_The_Army)
"Indira Gandhi held a private meeting with the top officers of the Indian Army. She pointed out the reasons for the emergency and asked the military for its reaction to the situation. The Indian Army has a long history of being apolitical and professional, the Prime Minister expressed her hopes this would remain. The Indian Army and its top brass are faced with a difficult choice. While most officers are inclined to remain uninvolved, there are those who fear for the democratic future of the country. They urge the Army Chief to use his influence and suggest the Prime Minister consider ending the emergency and hold elections. However, to do so would be a major break from tradition."
-The Generals react…

Army Reaffirms its Apolitical Status
"In a major victory for the Indira Gandhi government, the Indian Army declared it would remain apolitical. This is confirmation that the military is not being swayed by the opposition, though it is not likely to actively aid the government in cracking down on opponents. The military is strictly focused on protecting the borders from foreign threats. News of the Army refusing to act will reduce some of the tensions and provide a blow for those opponents who hoped for a military intervention to finally end the emergency."
-Excellent (negative impacts of "Emergency" slightly reduced)

Army States its Preference for Elections…
"In a private meeting with the Army leadership, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi was informed the military preferred elections. This marks a major setback for Indira Gandhi and the Emergency. The implication is a failure to call elections could result in either a military intervention or public refusal of military support, both disastrous scenarios for the government. Shortly after the meeting, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi addressed the nation and announced her recommendation the President lift the Emergency. New elections will be held immediately. The Army and government will not want to reveal the details of the meeting as that could disrupt the Indian political structure. If the opposition or general public found out it could lead to both anger at the Army for intervening and a new precedent that the opposition could call on the Army to resolve political problems in the future."
-Damn (election event and tree fire)

Promote Sanjay (Event from IND_Promote_Sanjay)
"Sanjay Gandhi, the son of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, continues to concentrate power during the Emergency. He was one of the strongest advocates for declaring an Emergency and with key advisors defecting to the opposition, his position has greatly solidified. The Prime Minister trusts her son completely, however, he is publicly perceived as corrupt due to his familial ties and previous involvement in controversial government initiatives. Sanja Gandhi has also unveiled a five-point agenda to promote efforts in improving literacy, family planning, among other social improvement initiatives. Many observers are nervous of the increasing prominence and power being held by Sanjay."
-Sanjay is ready (negative impacts of "Emergency" slightly increases)

Appeal to the People (event from IND_Appeal_To_The_People)
"Following the Emergency, the Indian government is seeking to break the traditional political machines operating across the country. Many regions of India are dominated by the political machines of mainstream political parties. This process prevents open competition in many areas and forces citizens to choose between voting for a party or losing access to state resources or bribes offered by the parties. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, under the urging of her son, Sanjay Gandhi, has begun dismantling these party machines through arrests and new regulations. This allows the Prime Minister and her supporters to directly engage with the population and not through the party apparatus, which consists of many opponents to the government."
-The people are thrilled (negative impacts of "National Strikes" slightly reduced

Unveil Twenty Point Program (event from IND_Unveil_Twenty_Point_Program)
"Prime Minister Indira Gandhi unveiled a Twenty Point Program in order to guide India out of its current crisis. The Prime Minister insists the implementation of the program will help guide the nation out of the current Emergency. The plan is focused heavily on the economy and is designed to boost the production of agriculture and the industry. Improving public services and rooting out corruption are also a major objective. The program is being well-received, however, the opposition are accusing the government of manipulating the people."
-Excellent (negative impacts of "National Strikes" slightly reduced

Arrest Dissidents (event from IND_Arrest_Dissidents)
"Following the proclamation of the Emergency, the Indira Gandhi government has directed police across India to arrest dissidents. Perceived extreme political organizations, like the Indian Communist Party, the RSS, and Jamaat-i-Islami are finding their events being banned and leaders imprisoned. Activists discovered to be involved in organizing strikes or national protests are being arrested in the thousands. Even opposition politicians are being arrested on dubious charges of corruption and instigating unrest. There are widespread reports of police torture. Media outlets are said to be facing similar threats, with some media organizations becoming mouthpieces for the government. Although the government is removing its enemies, the public is said to be seething with what they see is an attack on civil liberties."
-We must remove dissidents

Unrest Intensifies
"The efforts by Indira Gandhi and her government to restore order with a declaration of an Emergency faced a setback in Amristar. Thousands of Sikhs gathered in the city to condemn what they call the fascistic tendencies of the Congress Party. The event, called the Campaign to Save Democracy is being recognized as one of the first major mass protests against the government. The Indian government has already begun directing police to arrest Sikh activists. Despite being a small minority, it is clear that a large percentage of those arrested are Sikh, causing intense resentment from the Sikh community to the government."
-Oh no (negative impacts of "Emergency" and "National Strikes" slightly increases)

Unrest Decreases
"Efforts by the Indira Gandhi government to directly engage with the population, bypassing traditional political infrastructures and new social reforms have gained traction among rural Indians. For urban Indians, there is still a great deal of resentment over what is seen as the erosion of Indian democracy. However, there is some support for the government among business owners who support new initiatives to revive the economy. The arrest of dissidents and crackdown on the opposition has hindered efforts to resist Indira Gandhi, overall the national strikes and protests have diminished."
-Excellent (negative impacts of "Emergency" and "National Strikes" slightly reduced)

Family Planning Campaign (event from IND_Population_Control_Campaign)
"The government of Indira Gandhi is facing accusations of overseeing the forced sterilization of millions in the countryside. There are reports from villages accusing government doctors of sterilizing women without informing them. The current Family Planning campaign is believed to be under the control of Sanjay Gandhi and he is facing the brunt of criticism. There are protests across affected rural communities and newspapers are widely publicizing stories of individuals victimized by the program. Local officials are facing crowds of protestors outside their homes. Sanjay Gandhi is being accused of incompetence and corruption, with many believing his position is the result of nepotism."
-Oh no (negative impacts of "Emergency" and "National Strikes" increases)

Restore Elections (Event from IND_Restore_Elections)
"Prime Minister Indira Gandhi declared the Emergency was nearing an end and fresh elections will be held in a few months. She has directed the government to release all political prisoners to allow a free and open election campaign. Indira Gandhi is portraying the election and lifting of Emergency restrictions as a natural progression. She stated her hopes that the people will confirm their support for Congress in the election. However, the opposition is claiming it was pressure from the Indian people that forced the government to hold elections. Almost all the opposition parties are already claiming the upcoming election will be between continued dictatorship or democracy."
-The people must chose (launches election event in 3 months, starts that focus)

Suspend Elections
"Citing the ongoing instability and economic crisis, the Indian government under Prime Minister Indira Gandhi announced a suspension of all elections. The main urban newspapers have roundly criticized the decision. However, pro-Congress media outlets spoke loudly in support. The opposition is calling for mass protests in the coming days with many politicians accusing the government of delaying polls until they establish total control. The Congress Party in response called on its own supporters to prepare their own events in support of the government during this critical time. It appears the political situation in India remains unstable and uncertain."

Amend Constitution
"The Indian Parliament passed the thirty ninth amendment, making it the second amendment passed since the Emergency was declared. The new law places judicial restrictions on its ability to investigate the position of Prime Minister. It essentially makes the electoral fraud case being brought against Prime Minister Indira Gandhi invalid. The government argues the new law will ensure the judiciary cannot interfere in the governance of the nation by invalidating politicians on superficial charges. The opposition decried the decision, noting this is just the latest in a series of amendments passed since 1970 that have dramatically weakened the power of the judiciary."

#IND_General_Elections

Indian General Elections 
"The Indian people took to vote in what many believe is the most hotly contested election in Indian history. The election sees the Congress Party led by Indira Gandhi go against Moraji Desai and his Janata Party. The Congress Party is running on a platform calling for a more socialistic transformation of India. The Janata Party promises to restore India in the vision of Mahatma Gandhi and condemns Congress for seeking to implement a foreign ideology on the people of India. Janata promises a return of traditional Indian values and protection for Indian industries and agricultural producers. The people of India must decide on more socialization or a push for the India envisioned by its earliest freedom fighters."
-Gandhi and Congress Win! (opens that side of the tree)
-Desai and Janata Win! (opens that side of the tree)

India Wishes to Send Delegation (China event, from IND_Reach_Out_To_China)
"The new Indian government led by Moraji Desai has requested to send a delegation to visit. The new Indian government wishes to launch confidence building measures in order to improve relations and facilitate peaceful resolutions to our current issues. Many of our foreign relations experts believe we should meet with the Indians as improving relations could open up access to trade with India and its extensive market. Others believe it would be more in our interest and the Pakistanis would appreciate if we rejected this initiative."
-Accept (leads to "Diplomatic or Economic Mission?" for India)
-Decline (ends chain, hurts relations)

Diplomatic or Economic Mission? (India event)
"The Chinese positively reacted to our request and have formally requested we send a delegation. This marks a major breakthrough in Indo-Sino relations. We must decide what type of diplomatic mission to send. We can send one led by our Foreign Minister to work on normalizing diplomatic relations and cool existing tensions. The material benefits would be limited in a diplomatic mission but it has a high probability of success. Or we could send a mission dominated with economic officials to press for a new economic agreement. Expanding economic links could be a way to achieve economic growth and positive ties. The economic mission may offer more rewards but is highly risky and could easily end in failure."
-Diplomatic (China gets "Indian Mission Arrives")
-Economic (China gets "Indian Economic Mission Arrives")

Indian Mission Arrives (China event)
"A high-powered delegation of senior Indian government officials and politicians arrived for talks in the capital. The Indians are keen to normalize ties and begin building trust between our two states. The Indian delegation insists the Prime Minister is keen on a breakthrough in bilateral relations between the two most powerful Asian powers. We must decide whether to reciprocate and begin the process of normalizing ties. We would do so by signing an agreement to increase cultural exchanges between our states. Such an agreement would reduce the potential for conflict with India but may alienate Pakistan. The other approach is to politely host the Indians and then send them off without any commitments, leaving the status quo intact."
-Normalize ties (India gets event "Chinese Ties Normalized")
-Maintain status quo (relations remain unchanged, chain ends)

Chinese Ties Normalized (Indian event)
"The recent diplomatic mission to China arrived in New Delhi to much fanfare. The mission successfully achieved a diplomatic breakthrough, including an agreement for more cultural exchanges. The Indian government has placed normalizing ties with China as one of its major foreign policy objectives and it appears their effort is bearing fruit. The two nations also agreed to expand their embassies to better facilitate travel and engagement between the two states. Critics to the Prime Minister acknowledge his success but note the agreements do not mark a significant shift in ties nor resolve the current outstanding issues between the two states."
-Good (India-China relations improved)

Indian Economic Mission Arrives (China event)
"An Indian delegation recently arrived in the capital for high-level talks meant to normalize relations between our states. The Indians have also brought some of their top economic officials and are calling for an expansion of trade opportunities. The Indian government has not been shy to discuss its interest in normalizing our relations. We have three options. We can choose this opportunity to normalize ties, through an expansion of cultural exchanges. Or we could normalize ties and sign some trade agreements to boost potential trade between our nations. The first two options could help pave the way to future agreements. The final option is to politely receive the mission and send them back without any agreements and maintain the status quo. This will help ties with Pakistan and show our position towards India."
-Normalize ties (leads to India event "Chinese Ties Normalized")
-Normalize ties and expand trade opportunities (India gets event "Chinese Tires Strengthened")
-Maintain status quo (relations remain unchanged, chain ends)

Chinese Ties Strengthened (India event)
"The recent diplomatic mission to China arrived in New Delhi to much fanfare. The mission successfully achieved a diplomatic breakthrough, including an agreement for more cultural exchanges. In addition, both sides agreed to encourage trade ties through several treaties. The Indian government has placed normalizing ties with China as one of its major foreign policy objectives and it appears their effort is bearing fruit. The two nations also agreed to expand their embassies to better facilitate travel and engagement between the two states. Critics to the Prime Minister acknowledge his success but note he did not achieve a resolution on the more serious outstanding issues. The government claims achieving such an agreement requires steps to be taken and India has taken large strides."
-Excellent (Chinese ties improve and trade relations big boost)

Dealing with Party Unrest (event from IND_Dealing_With_Party_Unrest)
"The Janata Party consists of socialists, pro-business, regional, and religious parties across India. It has conflicting interests and a number of coalition partners with opposing viewpoints. Despite its victory, the Janata Party is currently ruling with a weak coalition. Recently, left-leaning Janata MPs have indicated they may not always vote with the party in parliament. There are fears that the Congress Party may exploit this to their advantage and undermine the legislative agenda for the government. The Prime Minister has called for a meeting of all major coalition partners and Janata leaders to find a solution and strengthen the coalition."
-Host meeting with coalition partners… (50 percent chance "Left-Leaning Members Refuse to Guarantee Votes" fires, 50 percent "Compromise on Economy Reached")

Left-Leaning Members Refuse To Guarantee Votes
"The Prime Minister sought to shore up support within the Janata Party and its coalition allies, particularly with its left-leaning members in a recent meeting. However, these efforts failed and the left wing of the party now adamantly states it will not guarantee its vote on all matters, especially those related to the economy. They continue to condemn the Congress for its autocratic structure but claim they cannot betray the Indian worker for political gain. The government sought to assuage their fears and promised a balanced economic program, but the left-wing members refused to compromise on their stance. The Prime Minister will have to deal with an even weaker coalition and more difficult legislative battles in Parliament."
-Oh no (negative impact of "Weak Coalition" made worse)

Compromise on Economy Reached
"The Prime Minister sought to shore up support within the Janata Party and its coalition allies, particularly with its left-leaning members in a recent meeting. The talks were a major success as the left wing of the coalition agreed to not withdraw their vote in support of government bills they find too pro-business or capitalistic. However, they agreed on the condition that Janata curb some of its proposed legislation and continue to support efforts to protect worker rights in India. This is a small compromise and the Prime Minister can rest assured his coalition is now much stronger than when it started."
-Excellent (reduces negative impacts of "Weak Coalition")

Mandal Commission
"The Prime Minister setup the Mandal Commission to identify the socially or educationally backward classes in India and present recommendations on empowering these groups. The commission identified specific castes that are falling behind in social development, education, end economically. The final report recommends a series of reforms. One calls for the prevention of predatory loans towards disenfranchised castes. The more controversial recommendations call for the establishment of quotas to government positions and educational institutions. If the Prime Minister decides to begin implementing the proposals, he risks receiving backlash from those communities who do not fit the category of a backward class but also feel disenfranchised. The other option is to just file away the Mandal recommendations and leave them for another government, which will anger those communities."
-Initiate reforms (5 year spirit "Address Backwards Classes")
-File it away (5 year spirit "Dalit Agitation")

New Requirements for Foreign Corporations 
"The Indian government is considering presenting legislation to Parliament requiring foreign corporations to enter into partnerships with Indian corporations. Supporters of the legislation claim it will promote local industrial growth and promote self-efficiency. They argue foreign corporations would gladly comply with the law to enter the large Indian market and that such relationships will help Indian industry rapidly modernize. Opponents to the legislation fear the potential domestic industrial boom promised by proponents of the bill will not materialize and foreign corporations may end up leaving the Indian market. The Prime Minister must decide whether to go with the legislation, if he refuses though, he will face backlash from the party."
-Institute them (3 year spirit "domestic industrial boost")
-Leave it be (negative impact of "weak coalition" made much worse)

Coca Cola and IBM Leave India (if spirit "Domestic Industrial Boost" has been active for 6 months)
"The recent legislation that required foreign corporations to enter partnerships with local Indian corporations has backfired. Coca Cola and IBM are among the higher profile foreign firms that have announced they will leave India. The companies cite the new Indian laws as too disruptive to growth and have chosen to leave the Indian market. The Indian government tried to put a brave face claiming that Indian producers will make up consumer demand for such goods. Economists offer a more pessimistic assessment. They note the lack of foreign goods, will hinder the economic development of India. The lack of foreign firms will hurt technological access and hinder the ability of Indian corporations to compete with goods on the international market."
-Oh no (spirit "Domestic Industrial Boost" removed, 5 year spirit "Domestic Industrial Slowdown" and "Foreign Technology Gap" making economic/electronic industries more difficult to research
