
USA_INDONESIA.5 America Calls for Humanitarian Intervention in Indonesia
"The situation in Indonesia has deteriorated as many patriotic Indonesians in Sumatra continue to oppose the government for its communist leanings. The government of Sukarno continues a heavy handed approach including cutting off essential supplies for those it accuses of rebelling. Under the advice of the CIA, the President has directed the State Department and United Nations mission to launch a diplomatic and public campaign calling for a humanitarian intervention in the conflict to prevent a massive loss of life. The CIA believes such a mission can provide an opportunity for us to expand contacts with the anti-communists and lay the groundwork for future action."
USA_INDONESIA.6 CIA Bomber Shot Down in Indonesia
"The CIA recently dispatched obscured bombers piloted by former Air Force pilots through a front organization called Civil Air Transport to support the Sumatra anti-communist rebels against the Indonesian government. These pilots were covertly launching bombing runs against Indonesian positions from rebel-controlled airfields. Unfortunately, the Indonesians shot down a bomber piloted by Allen Lawrence Pope. His B-26, after a bombing run was intercepted and shot down. Pope and a rebel crewmember managed to bail out but were captured by Indonesian forces. His capture confirms accusations by the government that rebel planes are being flown by American and Nationalist Chinese planes. We are denying involvement and claiming Pope was a mercenary, but the incident is a major embarrassment and we will end the operation."
USA_INDONESIA.7 Lessons from Indonesia (American CIA Failure Indonesia Summary)
"Our operation in Indonesia ended in failure, the anti-communist Sumatra rebels were defeated and Sukarno now appears to be in a much stronger position. The reasons for this failure are many, for one we underestimated the capabilities of the Indonesian military. Our efforts to support propaganda stations and rebel basis were thwarted by government attacks. The Indonesian military itself has many anti-communist officers and our actions risked turning them against us. The rebels and anti-communist factions were actually further divided by our actions to prop up the rebels, providing an opportunity to the communists to more closely align with the government. We also failed to shore up other Western powers and did not commit enough forces to ensure rebel success."
USA_INDONESIA.1 American Condemnation of Human Rights Abuses in Sumatra
"The United States condemned the human rights situation in Sumatra both at the United Nations and White House. The American government accuses the Indonesian government of using extreme violence and starvation against the people of Sumatra. This marks an internationalization of the recent rebellion of anti-communist Indonesian military officers who have seized Sumatra. The rebels are demanding the Indonesian government dissolve itself and ensure the removal of all communist influence from the nation. The Indonesian government so far has maintained control over most of the armed forces and its leader, Sukarno denies any alliance with communists or human rights abuses. Instead he says the rebels are a cabal of disgruntled men demanding power at the expense of Indonesian democracy. The United States action is being viewed with grave concern by other powers who fear American involvement may escalate the crisis."
USA_INDONESIA.8 American Naval Exercises off Indonesia
"The United States Navy has initiated large naval exercises off the coast of Indonesia and near Sumatra, where rebel forces are currently battling government troops. The United States has recently began criticizing the Indonesian government for its heavy-handed tactics in dealing with the rebels and refusing to listen to their demands. The rebels are demanding the Indonesian government, led by Sukarno, relinquish power and purge the communist party from any participation either in government or politics. The government denies excessive communist influence and accuses the rebels, consisting of military officers, of trying to undermine democracy to seize power. The American naval deployment and its criticism will only weaken the position of the Indonesian government and provide a strong show of support for the rebels."
INO_USA_WAR.1 American Intervention in the Sumatran Revolt
"In an address to the nation, the President of the United States announced American military forces were immediately deploying in Indonesia to protect the Sumatra rebels. The President noted the Indonesian government was using extreme tactics to end the revolt, needlessly putting millions of civilian lives at risk. He also stated the Indonesian government was increasingly falling under the thrall of foreign communist influence and the American intervention would not only save lives but save democracy for the people of Indonesia. The Indonesian government responded furiously, claiming the Sumatra rebels were simply a puppet force for the American government and that all Indonesians would unite to defeat the invading Americans."
INO_USA_WAR.5 The Partitioning of Indonesia
"The United States announced plans to partition Indonesia. The American government noted the current Indonesian state was far too diverse and spread out geographically to allow an effective central government. Such a system made it vulnerable to localized revolts and those living outside the main islands were prone to neglect from the center. With partition, all peoples on the islands will have access to a receptive government and no one island can impose its values or beliefs across all others simply because they control key state apparatuses. The decision is facing criticism among urban Indonesians, many of whom argue the partition plan will only provoke more conflict between the islands. Other argue the partition is really just a tool to ensure Indonesia never achieves its potential to become a major global player."
INO_USA_WAR.4 Evaluating Our Options in Indonesia (Whether to Reform the Central Government or Partition)
"With our successful intervention in Indonesia, we have the ability to dictate a resolution to the conflict. One option is to restore the central government and hand over power to the Sumatra rebel leader Colonel Ahmed Hussein. He will establish a strong regime and purge all communists from the country. Analysts believe his stance is popular among military officers. He could coordinate a robust, national anti-communist program. An alternative solution to Colonel Hussein is to partition Indonesia, as many analysts believe Indonesia is too large and geographically divided to be governed as it is currently. The unwieldly state apparatus makes Indonesia especially vulnerable to communist infiltration. Partition would prevent this and block a major avenue for communist infestation in the region."
INO_USA_WAR.6 PRRI (Colonel Hussein) Solidifies Power
"With American backing, Colonel Ahmed Hussein has solidified his control over Indonesia. Colonel Hussein came to prominence as one of the main rebel military officers in Sumatra. He delivered the ultimatum to the Indonesian government for the restoration of government officials and new elections. However, the government refused, resulting in an armed conflict. With American support, the rebels were able to triumph. He is expected to announce a cabinet consisting of the top national, anti-communist political leaders. His current military junta has several prominent and highly respected anti-communist officers. New elections are being promised, along with the banning of communists and other groups viewed as threats to the Indonesian state and democracy. The CIA and American embassy are reportedly playing a major role behind the scenes to protect the Hussein regime from counter-coups being planned by more senior officers."
INO_CIA_EXPOSURE.0 Involvement Hidden (Indonesian Bombing)
"The CIA, using a front company in Thailand has successfully been shifting bombers and pilots to support the Indonesian rebels in Sumatra. Our pilots have successfully been conducting strafing and bombing runs on Indonesian military targets and airfields. The bombers are slowly being transferred over to rebel pilots and it is clear our operations have not been exposed. We have managed to avoid exposure by the Indonesian government, allowing us to support the rebels and publicly remain a neutral party in the conflict. This will give us greater flexibility in pressuring Indonesia to stop its increasingly alignment with local communists."
INO_CIA_EXPOSURE.1 Bombing Program Exposed
"The CIA, using a front company in Thailand, had tried to clandestinely provide bombers and pilots to rebels in Sumatra. However, the Indonesian government has managed to shoot down a bomber and capture a pilot, exposing their origin. This is a major embarrassment for our government and a failure for the CIA. The Indonesians are furious and our reputation in the region will suffer as a result. It will require a lot of effort to re-establish trust with Indonesia. Along with the Indonesian government, the Soviet Union and regional communist parties are gleefully publicizing our embarrassment. The CIA director was given a dressing down by the President."
INO_CIA_EXPOSURE.2 American Bomber Shot Down over Indonesia?
"The Indonesian government has released news that an American bomber, flying for rebel forces in Sumatra, was shot down while attacking a government military airfield. The American Embassy quickly declined any involvement, however, Indonesian newspapers published photos of the downed airplane and an American pilot being held in custody. The downed plane, a World War II American plane, had Republic of China symbols under a recently applied fresh coat of plane. The Indonesian government noted the captured pilot, and origin of the plane indicated direct involvement from the United States. The American government now insists any American planes or pilots involved were mercenaries, not representatives or agents of the United States. Despite its claims, most nations appear to be siding with Indonesia and are calling for the United States to halt any assistance it is giving to rebel forces."
Sumatran_Revolt.50 The Indonesian Civil War (Sumatran Revolt Escalates into Civil War instigated by CIA)
"Indonesian rebels in Sumatra, mostly military units, recently started a revolt demanding the Sukarno government stepdown. The rebels believe communist influence in Jakarta is growing and Sukarno is falling to their influence. Efforts by Sukarno to resolve the issues and prevent an escalation have had some early success. However, the CIA believes with its backing, it can bring more support for the rebels and turn the revolt into a full-scale uprising against Sukarno. This would gravely weaken Sukarno and ensure help ensure the communists do not manipulate their way to power."


Vietnam_RefferendumAH.5 Vietnamese Referendum Rejects Unification
"The people of Vietnam voted to reject unification. It appears the people of South Vietnam have no interest in being unified and under the control of communist North Vietnam. The results are being welcomed by the American backed South Vietnamese government who argued the North Vietnam government lacked sincerity in holding free elections. The North Vietnamese government has accused the South and its allies of manipulating the results to ensure it did not result in unification and the establishment of a true government that represents the people of Vietnam. They are calling for all the people of Vietnam to express their displeasure and pledged to redouble their efforts in liberating all Vietnamese people."
PBSUCCESS.50 American Invasion of Guatemala
"The leftist regime in Guatemala has solidified its control over the country and instituted draconian measures to curb dissent and setup the further nationalization of foreign companies in the country, especially United Fruit Company, a vital American corporation. The CIA responded with operation PBSuccess, which sought to establish radio broadcasts and instill widespread fear and panic among the Guatemalan people. In this chaotic environment, the Guatemalan military, with its pro-American and anti-communist leadership, would be able to rally even pro-government officers to intervene and end the regime of Jacob Arbenz. However, this plan failed. Once news was leaked of an impending Soviet deployment, the President was able to order the United States military to invade Guatemala to restore democracy and protect American citizens and property in the country, with the support of the American people."
Ajax_USA.9 American Condemnation of British Interference in Iranian Affairs
"The President has directed the State Department to criticize British involvement in Iranian affairs. The United States cannot condone such blatant interference as it risks enflaming tensions in the region. It would also weaken Western prestige among post-colonial states. The CIA is being directed to cut off any cooperation with the British over intelligence operations in Iran. If the British insist on its current course, it will have to do so on its own."
Radio_Free_Europe.1 Radio Free Europe
"The National Committee for a Free Europe (NCFE) recently launched a new radio station called Radio Free Europe. This new station will conduct broadcasts across Europe and the Iron Curtain to battle communist propaganda. The CIA controls the NCFE and has recruited many prominent anti-communists to support its efforts. Radio Free Europe will broadcast accounts from refugees who have escaped communist regimes. The station is being widely applauded across the United States as a strong response to the rising communist threat."
USA_VIE50s.2 America Approves Reunification Election
"The United States has agreed to plans for Reunification Elections in Vietnam that came out of the recently signed Geneva Accords. The agreement came after assurances from the communist north that the election will be overseen by international observers. Our agreement means the South Vietnamese will have to go along with it despite their reservations. The CIA also claims it is unsure how the election will turn out. Regardless, denying the election may only make the southern government unpopular and turn the Vietnamese public overwhelmingly in support of the communists, who claim to represent the nation." 
USA_VIE50s.3 (American Country event) Rig the Elections or Not?
"The CIA director presented a plan to the President on a way to ensure the ballots are rigged in our favor in the upcoming Reunification Elections in Vietnam. We have established a fairly robust intelligence network in the country. The plan will involve cash, incentives, and some clandestine manipulation of the votes to ensure a democratic victory for the people of Vietnam. However, such an operation may be uncovered and could have drastic consequences in the region. To not act would risk us losing the entire country and potentially the region to a new wave of communism."
USA_VIE50s.4 Vietnam Reunified In Coalition Government
"Following Reunification Elections, the people of Vietnam have decided to unite under a coalition government of the communist north and non-communist south. The results have seen thousands take to the streets in celebration, many Vietnamese see this as the end of their struggle for peace and independence. The CIA believes the coalition appears stable for now, but warn it may quickly unravel if either side seeks to expand their base. We will monitor the situation closely and work to ensure the communists do not use this as an opportunity to launch a coup and seize power from the freedom loving people of Vietnam."
USA_VIE50s.8 America Backs South Vietnamese Rejection of the Geneva Accords
"The United States will back South Vietnam in its rejection of the Geneva Accords. The South Vietnamese believe the agreement gives the communists a base from which to undermine their government. More importantly, proposals for a Reunification Election are not tenable as the communists will clearly manipulate the vote in its favor, through all means at its disposal. The CIA agrees with this assessment and to ensure South Vietnam is not isolated, we are whole heartedly supporting their stance. The communists will have to make proper compromises and guarantee no subversion for any lasting agreement can be achieved."
PBSUCCESS_AFTERMATH.1 The Failure of the Monroe Doctrine (Aftermath of Failed PBSuccess)
"The failure of the CIA to control the situation in Guatemala reflects a wider failure of the Monroe Doctrine. For decades, the Monroe Doctrine has secured our interest and region from hostile ideologies or foreign interference. However, the recent failure highlights the limitations of American influence and now Guatemala is at risk of becoming a Soviet client. Our failure in Guatemala is an open signal to anti-American forces across the hemisphere to begin operations and plans to carry out their own agendas. American allies have also lost faith in our protection and may seek to look elsewhere for support."
PBSUCCESS_AFTERMATH.2 Falsifying Intel on Guatemala
"The failed attempt to oust the government of Jacobo Arbenz has resulted in him strengthening his hold over the country. With this stronger support, he will no doubt expand efforts to seize lands and facilities of American interests like United Fruit Company in the country. The CIA believes this will inevitably lead to a transformation of Guatemala into a Soviet client. However, this is not occurring yet. In order to not lose Guatemala and act before the situation is completely untenable, the CIA has a plan to leak certain intelligence in a way to make it appear the Soviets are already making moves to enter the country. Once the American people see Guatemala is on the verge of hosting Soviet forces, we can deploy the military to secure the country."
PBSUCCESS_AFTERMATH.3 Soviet Influence in Guatemala? (Global Falsified Accusations)
"Reports are spreading across the American and Western press of increasing Soviet influence over the Guatemalan government of Jacobo Arbenz. The reports indicate the Soviets are planning on quickly establishing a relationship with the country and establishing bases in the country. Editorials are already calling for the President to act. The American people are not comfortable with Soviet troops being deployed only miles from the United States. The President is gaining the necessary public backing to take more drastic action to resolve the Guatemalan situation."
Syria_CIA.10 American Invasion of Syria
"The United States announced it was commencing military operations against the Syrian government. In recent weeks, the CIA has used its media contacts to publish reports linking massive Soviet arms transfers to Syria. They also wrote articles describing the Syrian government as a Soviet client fomenting unrest in the region and brutally repressing the people. This has led to public outcry and a demand for action to halt Syrian aggression in the region. The President stated the American armed forces would act to liberate the Syrian people."
Decolonization_USA.2 America Calls for African Decolonization
"In a recent address, the President called for the decolonization of Africa. The President stated the American people have always supported the cause of liberty and freedom. In pursuance of these values, the end of colonialism and freedom for all Africans is a vital interest to the United States. He ended the address by urging those nations still holding colonies to recognize decolonization is the only just path forward. The address will no doubt cause concern among the colonial powers, but the American government believes it has gained new friends and legitimacy across the African continent. Many anti-colonial organizations have welcomed the news. American businesses and economists are also showing support as ending colonial rule will open new markets for American goods and influence."
Decolonization_USA.3 A Return to Wilsonian Diplomacy
"The shift to embrace decolonization, at the risk of alienating powerful allies reflects a return to Wilsonian diplomacy. The American State Department announced the United States firmly supports self-determination for all colonized peoples. This new American effort is meant to strengthen American ties with the newly emerging states and challenge the Soviets as the champion of anti-colonialism in Africa. Privately, the Soviets are said to be concerned over this challenge and there are fears among some Soviet leaders that the Americans may spread this self-determination stance to Soviet influenced areas in Europe and Asia."
American_Aid.5 American Aid Redirected to Korea and Japan (Away from France)
"The President directed the Defense Department and State Department to shift aid earmarked for France to Korea and Japan. The United States has determined providing more support to Asia is much more important than focusing so much on Europe. France is a developed and strong nation, it will not be greatly hindered, though the French government will likely not respond well to our decision. The Japanese and Korean government are already expressing their thanks with our increased support. They are crucial frontline states against communism and must be supported."
American_Aid.6 American Aid Redirected to South Asia (Philippines+India+Pakistan; Away from Commonwealth)
"The United States announced it would shift aid meant for Britain, Australia, and other commonwealth states to India, Pakistan, and the Philippines. The American government recognizes these states are under the risk of Soviet influence and this must be countered. The commonwealth states will be upset by our action, but they will not be overly affected by our actions. The action emphasizes our focus on securing the battle for influence in South Asia and the Pacific."
American_Aid.1 The Mutual Security Plan
"The Mutual Security Act was recently passed in Congress. It is a new foreign aid program that will enable the United States to provide aid and grants to friendly states. The support will help those states develop their capabilities and more firmly be able to resist communist influence. Unlike earlier programs, the support will not be limited to any one region or state. It will give the President greater flexibility and strengthen the State Department as it continues to wage diplomatic battles to secure American influence against an increasingly belligerent Soviet foreign policy."
AmericanOffer.1 (Event to North Vietnam) America Offers Reunification in Exchange for Non-Alignment
"The United States, using backdoor diplomacy have submitted a private offer to our government. They have pledged to withdraw their opposition to reunification on the guarantee we pledge to remain non-aligned in our foreign policy. If we accept the American proposal, the South Vietnamese will have no choice but to accept the elections and we will likely achieve our goal of a unified, independent Vietnam. However, to accept their demand will mean we compromise on foreign policy. The Politburo is divided by the offer. One faction urges an acceptance as this would ensure the rapid unification of the country and the implementation of the revolution across Vietnam. The other faction sees the offer as a sign of American weakness and to sacrifice our foreign policy would compromise any independence. They urge we continue to push for complete independence. The debate must reach a conclusion…"
AmericanOffer.2 Vietnam Agrees
"Our proposal to support reunification in exchange for a nonaligned Vietnam has been accepted by the North Vietnamese. This seems to confirm some of our intelligence which suggests that though communist, they are much more focused on securing and promoting Vietnamese independence and national identity. Although the solution is not necessarily ideal, we have successfully prevented Vietnam from being a bastion of communist and Soviet expansion in the region."
AmericanOffer.3 Vietnam Rejects
"Our proposal to support reunification in exchange for a nonaligned Vietnam has been rejected by the North Vietnamese. Their decision does not surprise many of our intelligence experts who have long viewed the regime a front for international communism. The rejection confirms they are not a nationalist, anti-colonial force as they claim to the public. They ultimately seek to put all Vietnamese under their oppressive control and then use Vietnam as a base to spread communism across the region. We should consider redoubling our support to the South Vietnamese."
AmericanOffer.4 The Reunification of Vietnam (Global)
"The governments of North and South Vietnam agreed to reunify the country following intense negotiations. A new coalition government of unity will be established. The new state pledges it will rebuild what was destroyed in the recent wars and lay the foundation for a strong, independent Vietnam state. In terms of foreign policy the new state pledges it will not intertwine itself with foreign conflicts and risk being a client to any power. Instead, Vietnam will pursue a nonaligned position and be a friend to all. The news is being welcomed as a great diplomatic victory for all the states involved in the negotiations, especially the United States, Soviet Union, and France."
Decolonization_USA.4 America Offers New African Nations to Join the Technical Assistance Program
"The State Department announced the United States intends to invite newly independent African states to join the Technical Assistance Program. The American government believes the program will provide key technical assistance to aid the transformation of these states into stable, democratic nations. This invitation continues the recent American embrace of decolonization and many see the Technical Assistance Program as a way for America to improve its influence in the continent and curb the threat of communist influence."
CCW_USA.10 American Intervention in the Chinese Civil War (America Joins the War)
"In a somber address, the President informed the American people that the United States military would be intervening in the Chinese Civil War. The President said the Republic of China had been a close ally to the United States during the last war, holding the line against the Japanese Empire at tremendous cost. He also noted the close bonds made by the two sides during the war, including the sacrifice of many Chinese lives to protect and host American airmen. He concluded by stating the communists were seeking to exploit an exhausted Chinese nation with its nefarious operations and the people of China needed direct American help to ensure the freedom of its people."
USA_Israel_Lobby.1 Review of the Middle East Situation and the two sides internally over supporting israel heavily or maintaining neutrality to bolster arab ties
"The situation in the Middle East is precarious. Although the recent Arab-Israeli War has ended in an armistice, both sides appear to be gearing up for a second round of fighting. The Arab World possess valuable resources, especially oil. The Israelis are establishing a democratic state and has a strong affinity towards the West and has the sympathy of the American people. The administration must decide how it will proceed. One group advocates a strong pro-Israel policy including arms deals, this will be well-received by the public and pro-Israeli interests. The Israelis could also help secure our interests in the region. However, doing so would risk Arab ire and access to oil. The other group believes we must maintain neutrality in order to maintain and grow ties with Arab states. From this position we could help broker a future agreement to the long-term benefit of both the Israelis and Arabs."
USA_Israel_Lobby.2 The Tripartite Declaration
"The United States, Britain, and France have signed the Tripartite Declaration. The three states pledge to maintain the territorial status quo of as established by the recent Arab-Israeli Armistice agreements. The agreement confirms the commitment of these states to peace and stability in the Middle East and prevent any side from destabilizing the precarious peace. The agreement is being welcomed by the Arab states, desperately rebuilding their military capabilities. The Israelis are said to be upset as they believe their military advantage will soon be lost as the three states also agreed to limit arms sales to the region."
USA_Israel_Lobby.3 America Rejects the Tripartite Declaration
"The United States has refused to sign a proposed Tripartite Declaration proposed by Britain in France. The agreement would call on all three state to preserve the current territorial status quo between Israel and its Arab neighbors. It would also have stipulated the three parties would work to control arms sales to the region. The American government argued the agreement was anti-Israeli as it would deny them access to defense aid while allowing Arab states to more effectively rearm on the global market with its stronger financial position. The American rejection indicates its support for Israel and the Arab states are said to be furious over their position."
Decolonization_VIE.1 (To Victorious South Vietnam gov post Viet Minh defeat in 50s) America Calls for Free Elections
"The United States took the unusual step of publicly calling for Free Elections in Vietnam. This comes after the defeat of the communist Viet Minh by the government. The American stance indicates its support for the wishes of the Vietnamese people to be respected, even if the election sees the rise of pro-Communists. This reflects the recent American embrace of decolonization and self-determination. The American government believes its policies will strengthen international support for the United States and ultimately lead to stronger relationships and more stable allies."
nato_expansion.1 Possible NATO Expansion? (News Event, before Greece+Turkey+West Germany join)
"In a recent conference of NATO leaders, discussion was held on expanding the organization to include more frontline states to the organization and strengthen the collective defense of free Europe. West Germany, Greece, and Turkey are all facing communist forces on its borders and the risk of subversion. Leaving these states on their own risks their overthrow and would compromise the position of NATO versus the Soviet Union. These states can be strengthened and protected from overt and covert Soviet threats. However, the proposal to offer membership is being met by resistance, some members are leery of including West Germany so soon after the war. Others fear Greece and Turkey may end up being more of a liability due to their weaker economy and military."
nato_expansion.3 Turkish Event, to join nato or not
"NATO has offered us membership to their organization. By joining NATO we would be protected under their mutual defense clause and gain access to advanced military equipment, training, and economic support. However, joining NATO would put us exclusively in the American camp and make us a direct target of the Soviet Union. Some in the cabinet also fear any future conflict would drag Turkey into a wider conflict. The pro-NATO cabinet members believe the organization are essential to securing Turkish independence and further modernizing the nation. They note the without NATO protection, the Soviets will only escalate their efforts to subvert Turkey. Opponents believe joining the organization steers the country away from the Kemalist foreign policy which benefitted the republic for decades and risk dragging Turkey into a devastating war in the future. A decision must be made."
nato_expansion.4 Global News Turkey Joins NATO
"Turkey announced its intention to join NATO. The announcement is seen as a major victory for the organization and brings the organization directly to the Soviet border. NATO members are said to be thrilled with the inclusion of a frontline state with a sizeable military and strategic, geographic value. NATO welcomed the decision and promised the organization would protect Turkey and help its people achieve prosperity and cooperation within the organization. The Soviet Union is said to be infuriated and have expressed concerns that the United States will soon establish bases from which to target the Soviet people. The Turkish government hopes membership will bring it access to greater military and economic support."
nato_expansion.5 Global News Turkey Rejects NATO Membership
"Turkey announced its rejection of the offer for NATO membership. The Turkish government stated joining the organization would undermine decades of foreign policy and risk dragging the Turkish people into a war it has no interest in. The Soviet Union has welcomed the Turkish decision, calling it a responsible, neighborly decision. NATO and the United States in particular will be greatly disappointed for not gaining access to Turkish territory and its sizeable military."
nato_expansion.6 Greek Event, to join nato or not
"NATO recently offered us membership to the organization. Joining NATO would bring us under their collective defense and allow us access to military, economic, and political support. The cabinet will have to debate whether to join or not. Those who believe we should join note we only recently survived an attempted communist takeover influenced by Soviet subversion. Being a part of NATO would give protection and accelerate our recovery from the fighting. The opposition claims Greece cannot rely on other states and by joining NATO it may only encourage more Soviet subversion. They believe Greece has suffered enough in recent years and joining the organization will risk it becoming embroiled in a future European war."
nato_expansion.7 Global News Greece Joins NATO 
"The Prime Minister of Greece announced the government had agreed to join NATO. This makes Greece the newest member of the American-backed alliance. The Greek government noted it looked forward to establishing close bonds with all member states and secure the protection of Greece from any outside threat. The NATO members are thrilled with the announcement, with the Americans interested in potentially establishing bases and facilities to better monitor Soviet actions in the eastern Mediterranean. The Soviets are said to be furious and have lodged a protest to the Greek ambassador in Moscow. Many in Greece are said to welcome the news as it would offer direct protection for a nation that was only recently the target of foreign invaders and then civil war."
nato_expansion.8 Global News Greece Rejects NATO Membership
"The Prime Minister of Greece announced the government had rejected an offer to join NATO. The news will be seen as a blow to the organization which hoped to solidify its presence in the eastern Mediterranean and block Soviet influence. The Soviet Union praised the decision as one meant to lower tension in the world. The Greek government stated it rejected joining the group because the Greek people were still recovering and are in no condition to take on the responsibilities of joining a military alliance. Whether this rejection is a sign of Greek neutrality or a shift towards the Soviet camp, only  time will tell."
Nato_expansion.9 West German Event to Join NATO or Not
"As American, British, and French forces plan to formally end their military occupation of our country, they have offered us membership to join NATO. Joining the organization will finalize our integration into the defense of Western Europe. The Americans in particular believe our membership to NATO is crucial to prevent future Soviet aggression. Joining the organization will aid the remilitarization of our country and allow us to demonstrate that Germany is a power for democracy and freedom in Europe. However, some in the cabinet are urging us to reject the proposal, they note France and Britain are reluctant to see us rearm, which may cause tensions. More importantly, they worry our joining NATO will make reunification virtually impossible as the Soviets will see us as a American client."
Nato_expansion.10 West Germany Joins NATO
"West Germany formally accepted an invitation to join NATO. This marks a major victory for the organization. News of the announcement was coolly received in London and Paris as many there are suspicious of a rearmed Germany, even as an ally. The United States however, warmly welcomed the news, calling it proof that Germany was rehabilitated and was a willing partner to democracy. For NATO planners, West Germany greatly strengthens the defense of Western Europe both in terms of adding military power but also strategic territory. The Soviet Union is said to be infuriated by the announcement, accusing the United States and NATO of sabotaging any hopes for German reunification and European peace."
Nato_expansion.11 West Germany Rejects NATO Membership
"In a surprise announcement, West Germany rejected NATO membership. This is a major blow for the organization which counted on West Germany becoming a key frontline state for the defense of Western Europe. France and Britain do not appear too publicly disturbed by this direction as many in those countries feared what would happen if NATO rearmed West Germany, even as an ally. The United States is said to be greatly disappointed as it most strongly lobbied for West Germany to join the organization. Many American officials expressed concern the German rejection indicates they may be falling under false Soviet promises of supporting a unified, neutral Germany. The Soviet Union responded positively to the news, praising West Germany for reducing the threat of another European war."
Nato_expansion.12 Albania (Post Coup) Join Nato?
"As we work to solidify our control of the nation and prevent a communist resurgence, NATO has offered us membership to the organization. Joining NATO would give us access to crucial military, economic, and training support. It would also offer us protection under its collective security clause, protecting us from foreign communist invasion. It may be the shield behind which we build a strong Albania. However, joining the organization may only cause the communists to expand their subversion efforts and raise domestic unrest. NATO would also make us obligated to host foreign troops and join conflicts the Albanian people have no interest in. We must decide if the benefits outweigh the negatives."
Nato_expansion.13 Kingdom of Albania Joins NATO
"The Kingdom of Albania indicated it would join NATO as soon as possible. The Albanian government noted its historical ties with member states and its desire to more deeply cement those ties. NATO members are said to be thrilled with the news, many seeing Albania as a key frontline state and a base from which to challenge communist regimes in the Balkans. More importantly, NATO believes it can now protect Albania from direct communist action. The Soviet Union is said to be furious and has long accused the Albanian government of being a American puppet that illegally seized power, noting the Albanian people will not tolerate such oppression for long."
Nato_expansion.14 Kingdom of Albania Rejects NATO Membership
"The Kingdom of Albania indicated it would not join NATO despite the offer of membership. The organization will be bitterly disappointed as many felt Albanian membership would offer protection to the nation and allow NATO to establish a powerful presence in the Balkans. It appears the Albanians feared joining the organization, would not protect the Kingdom, but instead risk an immediate communist invasion or popular uprising. The new regime is still establishing itself and uprooting the Albanian communist structures. The Albanian government added that though it would not join the organization, it hoped to maintain friendly ties with all NATO member states."
USA_INDO.1(To France) America Presses us to Consider Diplomatic Resolutions to the Indochina Conflict
"The American President sent his Secretary of State to deliver a message to our government during a recent visit. The Americans believe the current situation in Indochina is deteriorating and our continued operations will only lead to disaster. They are urging us to consider and begin a diplomatic resolution for the conflict. Although not explicitly stated, it was implied that our refusal to begin talks may result in a reduction of American aid, especially military aid. The senior defense officials believe such a scenario may be catastrophic to our ability to maintain the fight. Perhaps it is time to end this war and dispatch our senior diplomatic and political leaders to begin the process of starting talks."
USA_Korean_War.10 America Declares War on PRC
"The United States has declared war on the Peoples Republic of China. The communist Chinese intervention in the war has resulted in massive losses for both sides and heavy fighting between Chinese and American forces. The President addressed congress and described the overt Chinese support for the North Koreans. The deployment of Chinese troops along with heavy weapons and combat aircraft indicates their resolve to wage open warfare on the United States. Not declaring war gives all the flexibility and advantage to China, leaving American troops in Korea vulnerable. But with a declaration of war, the United States can expand its options and hold the communist Chinese regime accountable for its actions. After his comments, Congress voted overwhelmingly to declare war."
Establish_SEATO.1 Formation of SEATO
"During a Council of Ministers meeting in Bangkok, the Southeast Asia Treaty Association (SEATO) was formally established. The organization is a consequence of the recently signed Manilla Pact which called for its signatories to form SEATO in order to bolster bilateral ties and encourage collective security in the face of increasing regional communist aggression. The organization will be headquartered in Bangkok and hopes to attract more anti-communist regional states. The United States are major supporters of the effort and expressed hopes for the organization to emerge as a regional NATO. Although plans for cultural and military exchanges were discussed, the meeting did not agree on establishing any joint military commands. The Chinese government expressed reservations about the organization, calling it a pointless imperialist attempt to destroy the Chinese revolution."
Establish_SEATO.2 Invited to Join SEATO (Generic)
"The United States has offered us membership to SEATO. The organization is meant to strengthen bilateral ties between member states and coordinate collective security against Chinese aggression in the region. Joining the organization will provide opportunities to expand relations with those states, especially trade ties and cultural exchanges. Militarily, the organization does not have joint military commands but does hold regular meetings with senior defense officials which could give our armed forces professional development. However, joining the organization may make us a target of communist states. Our own domestic population may not be comfortable with the idea of collective security and oppose potential efforts to integrate the military responses of the group."
Establish_SEATO.3 Generic Response to America to Join
"[Nation] has accepted our invitation to join SEATO. They have pledged to attend the next Council of Ministers meeting to formalize its membership. They have informed us the organization aligns with their foreign policy and objectives. They were particularly excited about the prospect of increasing cultural and trade ties with the other member states. This is a major victory for our foreign policy and SEATO will benefit from its newest member. The response from the press is very positive as many in the country see the growth of SEATO as confirmation of our robust foreign policy."
Establish_SEATO.4 Generic Response to America to Decline
"[Nation] has declined our invitation to join SEATO. They claim discomfort over the prospect of being so closely linked with the organization along with domestic concerns. It was iterated that the rejection of membership did not mean a rejection of our position or friendship. [Nation] has determined joining the organization would potentially cause more problems than benefits. This is a setback for sure, but we will continue to look for potential new members to strengthen the defense against the looming threat of communism in Asia."
CWC_Police_Action.1 US Calls for UN Police Action in China
"The United States has presented a resolution at the United Nations Security Council calling for police action against the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). The United States claims the PRC has continuously violated international norms and engaged in gross crimes against its own people. A successful UN vote would give legitimacy for military action against PRC and help establish an international coalition. The only obstacle to the resolution is the Soviet Union, which has veto power on the security council."
CWC_Police_Action.2 UN Police Action in China? (Event to Soviets on how to proceed)
"The United States recently presented a resolution to the United Nations Security Council calling for police against the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). The United States is trying to build international consensus on its proposed military operations. The PRC is a communist state, however, their leadership at times has been erratic and has shown a desire to eventually challenge our leadership of the communist world. They have at times questioned our revolutionary path. It maybe in our interest to abstain from the vote and allow our two rivals to weaken themselves in armed conflict. However, China is a major communist state and not using our veto could result in a major reversal for communism in Asia."
CWC_Police_Action.3 Soviet's Veto
"The Soviet Union used its veto power to halt the United States resolution calling for police action against the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). This is a major blow for the Americans who wanted to garner international support for military action. The other communist states are praising our action for defending socialism. The West will no doubt be infuriated but this is nothing new. The PRC also expressed their satisfaction and we can look forward to better relations for the near future."
CWC_Police_Action.4 Soviet's Abstain
"In a surprise move, the Soviet Union elected to abstain from the United Nations Security Council resolution calling for police action against the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). This is a major victory for the United States, which proposed the resolution. Although Soviet allies are not outright condemning the action, many leftist and communist movements have already expressed outrage over the action. The PRC has also condemned the Soviet decision and are openly questioning their revolutionary credentials. The United States will now be able to carry out its military objectives with regards to the PRC."
USA_CWC.1 American Event for how to intervene in the Chinese Civil War, reviewing potential options
"The Chinese Civil War is raging, the Republic of China is struggling to stop the communist Peoples Republic of China. The years of internal conflicts and World War II have sapped much of the Republic of China strength. We must consider our options to approaching the situation. One option is to let things play out, our involvement may only prolong the fighting, bolster the communists, or deplete our own strength. The other option is to approach the United Nations to rally international cooperation in resolving the conflict in favor of the Republic of China. Finally, we can simply intervene directly. We can provide advisors, equipment, and if necessary, a military intervention to save the Chinese people from communist tyranny."
USA_FRAIND.1 (To France Post Operation Condor Success, America Calls for French Withdrawal from Indochina)
"The United States has called for our forces to withdraw from Indochina. They are concerned over the intensifying conflict in the region, including the siege of Dien Bien Phu. The Americans insist we do not have the credibility, firepower, or political will to achieve a victory. They insist our continued operations only risk further strengthening Vietnamese support for the communists. However, our top military and intelligence officials are calling us to refuse the demand, especially after the success of Operation Condor, which gravely weakened communist supply lines and infrastructure. The generals are confidant with a little more effort, victory can be achieved. The Foreign Minister is not as optimistic and warns if we refuse the Americans, they may choose to cut off aid to France, which could cripple the economy."
USA_FRAIND.2 France Agrees
"France indicated it agrees with our call for their withdrawal from Indochina. The French government stated it recognizes the situation on the ground is untenable and it will soon begin the process of opening talks with all relevant parties and preparing for a withdrawal of its forces. This is a major diplomatic victory as the CIA and State Department were growing increasingly worried that continued French occupation would strengthen the credibility of communists and weaken anti-communist or pro-Western factions among the Vietnamese people."
USA_FRAIND.3 France Rejects
"France has rejected our call for their withdrawal from Indochina. The French argued that due to recent successes on the ground, it could not halt its operations or withdraw while in a position of strength. The French emphasized that a withdrawal at this stage would abandon those people in the region who support them and enable a power vacuum the communists will exploit to their advantage. The continued French stubbornness continues to alienate regional states and Western reputation abroad, we may have to consider more harsh measures to bring the French to their senses."
Decolonization_USA.1 American Event for starting the Decolonization Branch IE Dealing with Africa branch
"The situation in Africa is rapidly changing. Across the continent, millions are advocating either for greater self-rule or independence from colonial powers. The expansion of education and more radical ideologies in colonies is fueling anti-colonial activism. The State Department believes European powers continuing to hold colonies, even with force, risk radicalizing their colonial subjects and opening the path to communist influence. Some believe the United States must use its leverage over European colonial states to push decolonization, in order to prevent radicalization and open these territories to American cultural and economic influence. However, another group argues such an approach will only facilitate the rise of radical regimes and instead they urge the United States to more openly support colonial states. We can encourage them to implement reforms so they can eventually transfer power to local, pro-Western African elites."
Containment_Policy.1 Overview of the Containment Policy
"The biggest challenge to global order is the rise of radical communist movements across Europe and Asia following 1945. The Soviet Union is blatantly supporting these efforts and are offering arms, training, and cash to these organizations to subvert and overthrow democratic regimes. In territories under Soviet military occupation they have simply purged non-communist political parties and forcibly established communist regimes. To combat this, the United States is establishing alliances among the frontline states facing communists and encouraging collective defense. American military, economic, and political aid will protect these states from overt and covert communist threats. The goal is to surround the communist world and contain it from further expansion."
CIA_SYRIA.1 Operation Straggle Overview
"Recently the CIA held talks with a former Syrian minister, Michail Bey Ilyan, over the prospect of an anti-communist coup in the country by the military. He stated that military units could seize control of Damascus, Aleppo, Homs, and Hamah along with all major international border crossings. Once radio stations announced a new government, under Colonel Kabbani, the leading anti-communist civilian politicians would be called to serve the new government. The plotters would need cash from the CIA to pay off relevant officers and ensure success. The CIA supports the plan, calling it Operation Straggle, they believe an anti-communist Syria would shore up anti-Soviet resistance in the region. Diplomatic advisors are not supportive, believing the operation may enflame tensions and cause instability in Damascus, which the communists could then exploit."
CIA_SYRIA.2 Executing Operation Straggle
"CIA agents in Damascus have worked furiously to ensure the relevant cash drops were made to support Operation Straggle. Over a hundred thousand dollars has been spread in support of Straggle. The State Department is prepared to release statements and diplomatic maneuvers to protect and support the new regime following the coup. However, tensions in the region with Israel forced the Syrian orchestrator, Michail Bey Ilyan to postpone the plan for five days. The CIA is urging Ilyan to not delay any further as the moment may be lost. Washington is waiting nervously to see if the planned coup occurs."
CIA_SYRIA.3 Coup in Syria (Global)
"Reports from Damascus are sketchy, Syrian military vehicles were spotted moving across the city, securing key buildings and the state radio station. Similar reports have arrived from Aleppo. Travelers trying to enter or leave Syria from either the Jordanian or Lebanese border are being forced to turn around as the military appears to have closed the borders. Radio broadcasts are declaring a new government will be forming under Colonel Kabbani, indicating a coup is occurring. The next few hours will determine exactly has occurred in Syria overnight."
CIA_SYRIA.4 Failed Coup in Syria (Global)
"The Syrian government announced plans for a coup sponsored by the United States had been uncovered by Syrian intelligence. Syria released pictures of arrested conspirators and showed the assembled media piles of cash said to be provided by the CIA. The Syrians claim it was patriotic officers who turned the conspirators in and halted the American attempt to rob the Syrian people of their independence. The United States has denied involvement in any plot. The coup apparently envisioned the Syrian military overthrowing the government and establish a new regime around Colonel Kabbani, who is among the detained."
CIA_SYRIA.5 CIA Backed Coup (Syrian Perspective)
"The new regime of Colonel Kabbani is already enjoying international legitimacy, especially from the United States which was quick to recognize his government and push its allies to do the same. The American embassy has also been active, with rumors that senior officers are being paid cash to not challenge the new regime. The recent announcement of a new cabinet, consisting of anti-communist politicians has further confirmed what many Syrians understood from the beginning. This coup is a CIA-sponsored operation. The new regime will have to work quickly to establish itself among the people as many Syrians view the regime with contempt."
CIA_SYRIA.6 Failure of CIA Backed Coup (Syrian Perspective)
"Our intelligence interrogations reveal the extent of American involvement in the recently uncovered coup plot. It appears senior American agents plotted and passed huge amounts of cash right under our noses. American support was based almost solely on the promise the new regime would be firmly anti-communist. It is distressing to see how far the United States would go in their plots, but fortunately, their allies were spineless and incompetent to our own agents. We will spread word of this American plot and the Syrian people will rally behind us as true defenders of the Syrian people."
CIA_SYRIA.7 Analyzing Our Failure (Giving up on Syrian Regime Change)
"The failure of Operation Straggle reveals fundamental issues with American involvement in Syria. The CIA recognizes it was over trusting of its Syrian contacts and overvalued their capabilities. The Syrian intelligence apparatus is incredibly robust and difficult to outmaneuver. In addition, Syrian nationalism is a very powerful force, and the CIA thought cash bribes would overcome such loyalty. They were wrong as once officers realized where the money came from, they moved quickly to expose the plot. Incredibly, some officers we bribed went to the government, confessed, and turned over the cash. The exposure of our involvement also greatly weakens American prestige in the country and continued involvement will only stoke Syrian paranoia of the West. We must focus our efforts to overt diplomacy and engagement with friends in Syria instead of covert options. If not, we risk more failures like Operation Straggle."
CIA_SYRIA.99 Syria a Danger to Regional Stability?
"The CIA has used its contacts with media across the world and political allies to release articles highlighting how unstable the Syrian government is. These reports note the Syrian government remains committed to war with Israel and is engaged in arms building at the expense of developing its economy and government for the benefit of its people. More significantly, Congress has been informed of intelligence reports indicating growing communist power in Damascus. These reports suggest either a communist coup may occur in the near future or the unstable Syrian regime may turn to the Soviet Union, opening its lands to communist military bases and troops in exchange for arms. The public is increasingly viewing Syria as an unstable bomb on the verge of destroying any semblance of regional or global peace."
CIA_SYRIA.100 Join the American Coalition?
"The American government has invited us to join their international coalition against the Syrian government. The Americans claim the Syrian government is unstable and that It is bent on expansionism. Whether at the expense of its public enemies or Arab neighbors. On top of that, the Syrians continue to maintain territorial claims on almost all its neighbors. The United States would like us to help them end the Syrian regime to restore peace in the region and end the recent history of political instability in the country. Our advisors believe participating may open up opportunities with the Americans. However, a number of officials caution us to reject as joining the anti-Syria coalition may alienate our population who will likely see the war as an American adventure."
CIA_SYRIA.101 American Lead Coalition Invasion of Syria
"The United States announced its coalition has commenced military operations against Syria. The Americans insist the Syrian government is unstable and a risk to its own population and all its neighbors. Disarming the regime and installing a government for all Syrians is the only way to prevent a catastrophic regional crisis from emerging. The United States promises a swift coalition campaign, but the Syrian government remains defiant and calls on all Syrians to unite in opposition to the foreign invaders."
CIA_SYRIA.25  America Calls for Humanitarian Aid to Turkey
"The United States has called for an international effort to provide humanitarian aid to Turkey. Recent unrest in northern Syria has seen large numbers of refugees cross the border into Turkey. The Turkish government recently called the situation on its border a humanitarian disaster. Turkish troops have deployed in the region to control the flow of refugees and support refugee camp construction. The American government also levied heavy criticism on the Syrian government for its heavy handed approach."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.1 American Proposals to Expand CENTO 
"The United States recently proposed expanding the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). CENTO is designed to contain communist influence in the middle east. Its members enjoy increased bilateral ties and better access to Western aid. The American proposal would seek to bring in more middle east states and strengthen CENTO to face not just communist threats but also other radical ideologies in the region. Its legitimacy as a regional alliance would be strengthened. Pro-American Arab states will be targeted to bring more Arab states to the organization. Bringing more Arab state will also quash accusations the organization is not representative of the region."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.2 (to Lebanon) Join CENTO?
"We recently received an invitation to join the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). CENTO is meant to be a middle east version of NATO and prevent communist expansion in the region. The United State and Britain provide military and economic aid to the group. Members enjoy increased bilateral and cultural ties. Joining the organization could increase access to Western aid. It would solidify our place in the Western camp. However, joining the organization could have domestic ramifications and radicalize both leftists and Arab nationalist in the country."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.3 Lebanon Declines to Join CENTO (Local)
"The Lebanese government has declined membership to the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). Lebanon stated they respected the invitation and carefully considered it. However, due to domestic concerns and the feelings of the Lebanese people, it must decline. This is a major blow for the United States which hopes to expand CENTO in order to bring more Arab states to better respond to radical ideological threat to the region."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.4 Lebanon Joins CENTO (Global)
"The Lebanese government announced its excitement to join the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). Joining the organization will bring Lebanon access to more Western aid. Lebanon expressed its hopes of expanding bilateral and cultural ties with all member states. CENTO and the United States view this as a major victory, Lebanon brings one of the largest centers of Arab culture in the organization, providing CENTO greater legitimacy in the region. Arab states in the region are condemning Lebanon and accusing it of betraying the Arab people for an imperial puppet alliance."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.5 Lebanon Joins CENTO (American)
"Lebanon responded positively to the invitation to join the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). This is a great victory for the organization which we helped setup in order to contain communist influence in the region. Though the organization was meant to promote collective defense in the region but has not really gotten beyond being a forum for closer bilateral, cultural, and military exchanges. With Lebanon joining the organization, it will quiet regional criticism of the group being an imperial project promoted by us and Britain. It will also give the organization a stronger ability to deal with the rise of more radical ideologies in the region, like Arab nationalism."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.6 (to Jordan) Join CENTO?
"We recently received an invitation to join the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). CENTO is meant to be a middle east version of NATO and prevent communist expansion in the region. Britain and the United States provide military and economic aid to the group. Members enjoy increased bilateral and cultural ties. Joining the organization could increase access to Western aid. It would solidify our place in the Western camp. It could strengthen the pro-Western inclinations of the monarchy, however it could backfire and radicalize both leftists and Arab nationalist in the country, especially in the military."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.7 Jordan Declines to Join CENTO (Local)
"The Jordanian government has declined membership to the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). Jordan stated they respected the invitation and carefully considered it. However, due to domestic concerns and the feelings of the Jordanian people, it must decline. This is a major blow for the United States which hopes to expand CENTO in order to bring more Arab states to better respond to radical ideological threat to the region. For Jordan, it will likely strengthen its image among Arab nationalists both domestically and in the region."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.8 Jordan Joins CENTO (Global)
"The Jordanian government announced its excitement to join the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). Joining the organization will bring Jordan greater access to more Western aid. Jordan expressed its hopes of expanding bilateral and cultural ties with all member states. CENTO and the United States view this as a major victory, Jordan brings one of the more influential Arab states in the organization, giving CENTO greater legitimacy. Arab states in the region are condemning Jordan and accusing it of betraying the Arab people for an imperial puppet alliance and bribes."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.9 Jordan Joins CENTO (American)
"Jordan responded positively to the invitation to join the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). This is a great victory for the organization which we helped setup in order to contain communist influence in the region. Though the organization was meant to promote collective defense in the region but has not really gotten beyond being a forum for closer bilateral, cultural, and military exchanges. With Jordan joining the organization, it will quiet regional criticism of the group being an imperial project promoted by us and Britain. It will also give the organization a stronger ability to deal with the rise of more radical ideologies in the region, like Arab nationalism."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.10 America Joins CENTO
"The United States accepted an invitation to officially join Central Treaty Organization (CENTO) and no longer be an observer. This gives the organization much greater access to Western aid and reduces the burden on Britain to meet the needs of CENTO. The CENTO members are said to be thrilled with the announcement and look forward to hosting senior American officials in future conferences. For the United States, a strong CENTO will protect its interests in the region and provide it a strong alliance to combat anti-Western or communist-friendly regimes. Critics in the region are condemning the action, calling it proof that CENTO is an imperial project. Joining the organization will lessen the need to support Israel directly to achieve our objectives. Our membership may help transform the organization into a true NATO for the middle east."
CENTO_PROPOSAL.11 America Declines to Join CENTO
"The United States has declined an invitation to upgrade its status from an observer to a member of the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). Although the organization is meant to defend the middle east from communist encroachment, it has struggled to evolve beyond a forum of bilateral, cultural, and military exchanges among members. In the wider middle east, the organization is seen as an imperial project. The State Department is not confident our membership will evolve the group and in fact worry it will further erode its legitimacy in the region. Israel has also not been particularly fond of the group and pro-Israeli officials note supporting Israel will be a far more effective way to achieve regional objectives. For these reasons, the United States decided not to join."
Ajax_USA.7 British Proposal to Invade Iran
"The British failure to overthrow the Iranian government has caused it to consider more drastic measures to prevent the nationalization of oil and further erosion of valuable Western interests in the country. The British are now calling on us to support them both militarily and politically in an invasion of Iran. Supporting an invasion and new regime could firmly cement Western control of a key regional state and strengthen British ties. The British also argue the current Iranian government is close to the communist Tudeh Party and if not removed, Iran may be the victim of a Soviet sponsored communist coup. However, such an invasion may have other consequences, such as radicalizing Iranian opposition to us and provoking a wider, regional backlash. The potential reaction of the Soviets must also be considered."
Ajax_USA.8 America Agrees (British Perspective)
"The United States has agreed to our proposal to remove the Iranian government through military action. The current regime in Tehran is clearly under the thrall of the pro-Soviet Tudeh. It is only a matter of time before a Soviet sponsored coup sees Iran become a Soviet satellite. If this were to occur, the Soviets would be in the heart of the middle east. The nationalization efforts and anti-British demonstrations are proof of communist influence. With American support, we can expect a swift victory and diplomatic cover in our operations."
Ajax_USA.9 America Declines (British Perspective)
"The United States has rejected our proposal to remove the Iranian government through military action. The current regime in Tehran is clearly under the thrall of the pro-Soviet Tudeh. It is only a matter of time before a Soviet sponsored coup sees Iran become a Soviet satellite. If this were to occur, the Soviets would be in the heart of the middle east. The Americans are choosing to ignore the dangerous implications of the recent nationalization efforts and anti-British demonstrations. If necessary, we may need to remove the Iranian threat ourselves, but this will likely result in American diplomatic objections."
Ajax_USA.5 American Objections to Iranian Nationalization
"The State Department announced the United States strongly opposes the recent nationalization of foreign oil interests in Iran. Such unilateral actions hinder the potential of future investment in Iran and unfairly punish those with interests in these corporations. The United States urges Iran to reconsider its approach and return to the negotiating table to reach a just resolution. The announcement is being welcomed by the British who continue to try and rally international support for its position."
Ajax_USA.6 America Rules Out Military Intervention in Iran
"The President of the United States informed the National Security Council that America would not militarily intervene in Iran. The President stated his hope that both Britain and Iran can resolve their disputes peacefully. At this stage, a military escalation would only cause more suffering and greatly weaken the image of the United States abroad. The British government was also informed of this decision and they are expected to be disappointed. If Britain were to launch its own military operations, it would do so at the risk of provoking a negative American reaction."
CCW_USA.5 America Calls for Humanitarian Aid to the RoC
"The United States has called for the international community to step up to provide desperately needed humanitarian aid to the Republic of China. The American representative at the United Nations noted the people of China have faced decades of civil war and warfare, and the communists, instead of joining hands in peace, are instead seeking to exploit this exhaustion for its own gains. Humanitarian aid would provide relief to the Chinese people and the government as it seeks to face the military challenges while also providing basic services to the population. The Peoples Republic of China through their communist allies have condemned the American request, citing it as an attempt to have the international community subsidize the war effort of the Republic of China."
CWC_Police_Action.0 Rumors of American Intervention in China
"As the news from China continues to paint a picture of a beleaguered Republic of China losing ground to the communist Peoples Republic of China, there are increasing reports of a potential American intervention. Topics related to China are said to dominate meetings at the Pentagon, White House, and intelligence agencies. American officers with experience in China during the war are being recalled or redeployed to the Pentagon. In press conferences government officials are constantly expressing concern for the global ramifications of a communist victory in China. These reports are raising concern in Moscow and other communist states that the United States may soon be on the verge of intervening in the Chinese Civil War, risking a dramatic international escalation to the conflict."
Syria_CIA.27 America Recognizes Turkish Annexation of Northern Syria
"The Secretary of State stated the United States recognized the recent annexation of northern Syria by Turkey. The Secretary noted Turkey was forced to act only after the Syrian government exasperated the situation with a brutal crackdown of civilians in the area. The United States believes the arrival of Turkish forces will halt the violence and prevent the situation from deteriorating further. The Syrian government has condemned the United States for undermining its sovereignty and openly backing the dismemberment of the Syrian nation. Syria calls on all Arabs to come together and liberate Arab lands seized by the Turks."
Syria_CIA.26 American Endorsement of Turkish Intervention in Syria
"Turkey recently asked for our reaction if they were to intervene in Syria. The Turkish government noted the humanitarian situation in northern Syria was rapidly deteriorating, causing a refugee crisis and bringing armed fighting right on their border. The Turkish military believes it can swiftly intervene and end the brutal Syrian campaign. The American President responded by endorsing such an intervention, the United States believes the conduct of Syrian forces, so they are unfit to govern the territory. The American government will provide Turkey all diplomatic and intelligence support it can for its operations."
CIA_SYRIA.50 (To Turkey) America inquires into Syrian Schemes
"The United States has dispatched some envoys to privately ask for our views on Syria and a plan they have developed. The Americans believe northern Syria is unhappy with Damascus and their agents can foment an uprising. In the ensuring chaos, the Americans would ask us to intervene and occupy northern Syria with full support and international protection from the United States. With American backing, such a plot could see us in control of strategic territory and resources. However, any military operation comes with unforeseen risks and we may risk facing stiffer Syrian resistance or a wider Arab backlash if we go along with the American plan. We must make our decision on whether to support the scheme to invade northern Syria or decline."
CIA_SYRIA.51 Turkey Agrees
"Turkey has indicated it is willing to work with the United States on a plan to deal with the Syrian regime. They have promised to deploy forces and help build the case for a Turkish intervention once the uprising in northern Syria began. Turkey also pledged to share its own intelligence and assets in the region to aid the American effort. This is a major diplomatic victory. Once Turkey takes over the Syrian territory, Syria will be reduced to a rump state and will no longer pose a threat to the region."
CIA_SYRIA.52 Turkey Declines
"The Turkish government has declined to support plans with the United States to instigate a popular uprising in northern Syria to setup a Turkish takeover of the area. The Turks believe the plan is not realistic and would weaken the regional position of Turkey and risk a prolonged, bloody conflict with Syria. This is a major setback for American plans to weaken the Syria and remove them as a regional threat. The Turkish government also noted though it would not support the plan, it hopes to maintain friendly ties with the United States."
CIA_SYRIA.53 (To Iraq) America inquires into Syrian Schemes
"The United States sent intelligence operatives to privately present our government with a proposal. They believe the Syrian government and state poses a risk to regional security and American interests. They would want us to launch an invasion of Syria and restore Hashemite rule the area. To support the endeavor, they will provide extensive diplomatic cover and provide military arms to our forces. Their intelligence agencies will also aid in establishing a pretext for an Iraqi intervention. The plan is attractive in that it would right the wrongs endured by the late King Faisal and firmly establish our place in the region. However, many advisors fear such an intervention could alienate the Iraqi people and Arab nationalists in the military. We must decide how to respond."
CIA_SYRIA.54 Iraq Agrees
"The Iraqi government has agreed to support our plans for overthrowing the Syrian government. The Iraqi government and intelligence agencies will cooperate with ours to facilitate the transfer of arms and a pretext for an Iraqi advance into Syria. The Iraqis are very attracted to the idea of expanding Hashemite rule in Syria and curtailing the spread of Arab nationalist ideas. They are adamant the pretext be made undeniable in order to strengthen the government when it decides to intervene. American diplomatic and clandestine support is also greatly appreciated. The plan will hopefully end the Syrian threat once and for all."
CIA_SYRIA.55 Iraq Declines
"The Iraqi government declined to support our plan for overthrowing the Syrian government. The Iraqis believe the scheme is not realistic and its potential rewards do not outweigh the potential negative outcomes. The Iraqis fear a prolonged conflict with a fellow Arab state. However, the biggest concern is that even with a strong pretext established, Arab nationalists in Iraq and the military may instead use the conflict to seize power from the monarchy. The Iraqi decision is a major setback to American efforts to deal with Syria and the risks it poses to the region."
CIA_SYRIA.10 Operation Wappen
"The CIA initiated contact with senior Syrian right-wing generals, under the leadership of General Adib Shishakli. He has a history of being friendly with the West and promises a return to such policies along with a crackdown of Syrian communists. Our Syrian friends believe a coup can be done but for a price. Syrian commanders, troops, and officials will have to be bribed to ensure support for the proposed coup. The CIA is confident the plan will work as General Shishakli has national recognition and experience at the highest levels. The proposed operation is being called Operation Wappen."
CIA_SYRIA.11 No Price too High? (Debating how much to use in bribes, lowball it and no coup attempt)
"The CIA has presented the final plan for Operation Wappen. The Syrian generals have asked for much more cash than originally agreed upon The White House is concerned throwing so much cash in Damascus may expose the plan and hints that this may just be an attempt to extort us. Of more concern is that this is a Syrian sting operation meant to expose our involvement and damage our reputation in the region. The CIA is strongly encouraging we meet the demands, but the Secretary of State believes they are suffering from tunnel vision and desperation to engineer a regime change. We must decide to meet the exorbitant demand, offer the original amount, or cut our losses and not risk exposure."
Passage_to_Freedom.0 America Launches Operation Passage to Freedom
"The United States Navy announced the initiation of Operation Passage to Freedom. American forces will help the French Army and French Navy evacuate pro-French and anti-communist Vietnamese civilians trapped in communist North Vietnam to the safety of non-communist South Vietnam. In particular, the campaign is focusing on evacuating Catholics in North Vietnam who face the threat of an atheistic regime and hostile propaganda that they are a pro-French fifth column. The CIA is secretly working with the South Vietnamese government to produce and spread leaflets in North Vietnam urging Catholics and others to flee the communist regime. The current government in South Vietnam desperately wishes to bring more Catholics to bolster a government heavily reliant on Catholic officials. North Vietnam has condemned what they call hostile propaganda, though there are reports of river traffic, roads, and villages being cut off from major cities to block the flow of refugees."
CIA_SYRIA.12 Generals Accept the Bribes (Coup Proceeds)
"The CIA has successfully dispersed cash bribes to key Syrian generals and it appears Operation Wappen is ready to go. The coup leader, General Shishakli is said to be organizing right wing political parties to prepare them in anticipation for the coup. Once the generals seize power and purge leftist officers, the new government will need the support of the right-wing parties to successfully govern. The CIA reported its confidence to the White House that the Operation will occur soon. It also noted the successful bribery campaign indicated American economic power can be effectively used to achieve intelligence objectives, when the situation was right."
CIA_SYRIA.13 Generals Reject the Bribes (Historical)
"The CIA suffered a major setback following news reports from Damascus that several Syrian generals had turned in bribe money they claimed was given by the United States to launch a coup. Syrian forces surrounded our embassy and detained the CIA officer orchestrating the plot on the ground. The generals claimed their patriotism and loyalty to Syria pushed them to report the incident and turn in the cash. Operation Wappen has been exposed, along with CIA participation. Other Syrian generals and political leaders involved either fled abroad or were detained by Syrian intelligence. It appears our bribe offers were not high enough for several generals who chose to expose the plot rather than risk a failed coup. The White House is said to be furious while the State Department suggests that Syrian intelligence had known the entire time and only struck now to maximize the embarrassment for the United States."
CIA_SYRIA.14 The Generals Coup (Global News Event for Syrian Coup)
"Overnight, Syrian tanks and troops swarmed across Damascus, seizing the radio station along with key government buildings. Similar scenes occurred in Aleppo and several other major Syrian cities. The next morning, state radio broadcasted that a council of generals had seized power and overthrown the government for its corruption and betrayals of the Syrian people. By that evening, the exiled General Shishakli arrived by plane to take control of the junta and government. The new Syrian leader addressed the population and called for national unity and a purging of dangerous, foreign ideologies like communism from the country. The United States and Britain were quick to welcome the new government, while Arab nationalists in other parts of the region staged protests."
PRC_USA_KOR.1 (To PRC) America Threatening Nuclear Campaign (Call the Bluff or Withdraw)
"Through private channels, the United States has indicated it will soon launch nuclear weapons against our nation unless we withdraw from the Korean conflict. This is a bold threat by either a desperate or bloodthirsty capitalist regime. Some of our senior officials argue the threat is a desperate ploy as our forces have the capitalists and their puppets on the run. To stop now would be foolish and give them the ability to use nuclear blackmail for other conflicts, like the fight for Taipei. However, other officials believe the threat is genuine and fits the American desire for victory at any cost. They argue our initial intervention shows the commitment of China to global revolution and to withdraw now would not leave China vulnerable, it would instead buy time for China to counter the nuclear blackmail. We must either stay and fight, or tactically withdraw."
PRC_USA_KOR.2  (To USA) China Withdraws
"The Chinese government, using private channels, indicated they have heard our warning and will soon begin the withdrawal of Chinese forces from Korea. The Chinese state that this is a tactical withdrawal and warned us to stay away from their border. This is a major victory for us and once the Chinese withdrawal occurs, the balance of power in Korea will shift in our favor. More importantly, this shows the successful ability to tactically use the threat of our nuclear arsenal in order to gain diplomatic and military advantages abroad. Many in the Pentagon are very thrilled that their investment in expanding the nuclear arsenal has paid dividends and likely saved the lives of many American soldiers."
PRC_USA_KOR.3 (Global) China Withdraws from Korea
"In a surprise announcement, the Peoples Republic of China declared it had achieved its objectives in defending China from capitalist incursions and will begin withdrawing its forces from Korea immediately. The Chinese government added that any further incursions would be swiftly dealt with. The United States and its allies will welcome the news as it shifts the military balance into their favor. Chinese allies are left puzzled as rumors swirl that the Chinese decision may be linked to American threats of introducing its nuclear arsenal to the conflict."
PRC_USA_KOR.4 (To USA) China Doubles Down (Option to Prepare the Bombs or Back Down from Nuclear Threats)
"The Chinese have rebuffed our threats of unleashing our nuclear arsenal against them. China apparently believes we are bluffing and unwilling to bring nuclear weapons into the conflict. The Pentagon is ready to begin preparing the first round of bombs and targets. Using these weapons can turn the tide, reduce our casualties, and perhaps force China into submission. However, some of our senior defense leaders are expressing caution. They fear the consequences of nuclear strikes in Korea, it may provoke a wider conflict or even a Soviet reaction. There are also fears that our decision to bring nuclear weapons into a small regional conflict may set a precedent that allows other states in the future to act similarly. We must decide whether to escalate the conflict, or back down from our threats."
PRC_USA_KOR.10 Korea Unified by the South After Chinese Withdrawal (Or China got Nuked)
"After a bitter conflict, which started with an unprovoked invasion by North Korea, the Republic of Korea has emerged triumphant. With the support of United Nations forces led by the United States, Korea has finally been unified. For the first time since the nineteenth century, Korea is a united, independent state. The Korean government announced it will soon begin a de-communism program and uproot all remnants of the previous regime. The victory was only achieved following the withdrawal of Chinese forces from the conflict, this tipped the balance of power overwhelmingly in favor of the United States and its allies."
American_Ceasefire_Request.1 America Requests Ceasefire (To PRC Over Korean War)
"The United States has requested a ceasefire for the conflict in Korea. The arrival of our forces tipped the balance of power against the capitalist Americans and their puppet forces. It is clear they do not see an opportunity to achieve a victory and are not asking for a halt to fighting. Some of our senior advisors advocate this is an opportunity and we should redouble our efforts to achieve total victory. Another group of advisors believe China has demonstrated its commitment to the global revolution and has rendered immense aid in both blood and treasure. They argue we should accept the ceasefire and concentrate on building our socialist state so that we can strike at the Americans when we are at our strongest."
American_Ceasefire_Request.2 China Declines 
"We recently sent a request for a ceasefire with to the Chinese. They are effectively holding the communist forces together and getting them to agree to a ceasefire would end the fighting. However, the Chinese have foolishly declined the request. It appears they believe victory is at hand for their forces. However, our troops are more than capable of holding them back and punishing them for their mistake. With this Chinese rejection, our commanders are now planning new operations to demonstrate to China that victory is impossible."
American_Ceasefire_Request.3 China Agrees
"We recently sent a request for a ceasefire with to the Chinese. They are effectively holding the communist forces together and getting them to agree to a ceasefire would end the fighting. Our request has been accepted and plans are underway for a meeting between frontline commanders to ensure a smooth disengagement. The United Nations forces, and American troops have fought bravely against overwhelming odds. The Chinese no doubt also reached the same conclusion that continuing the fighting will achieve nothing and just further sap their forces.
American_Ceasefire_Request.4 Ceasefire in Korea (Global)
"The bitter fighting in Korea appears to be drawing to a close following news that both sides have agreed to a ceasefire. The war started with the invasion of South Korea by communist North Korea. This provoked the United States to intervene in defense of the South with allied forces under a United Nations mandate. The fighting quickly escalated into a major regional conflict that has recently dissolved into a stalemate with neither side able to achieve a decisive victory. The ceasefire is being welcomed by both sides and the people of both North and South Korea will no doubt be breathing a sigh of relief that the fighting has come to a halt."
Decolonization_USA.50 American Condemnation of European Colonialism
"A recent speech by the President of the United States has raised eyebrows in capitals across Western Europe. The President condemned European colonialism as a denial to the inalienable rights of colonized people to self-determination and freedom. He noted, continued colonialism only held up archaic systems and radicalized populations against the liberties and progress Democracy offered the world. He called on all European powers with colonies to begin the process of decolonization and help usher in a new global order of free trade, democracy, and cooperation in Africa and Asia."
Korean_War_Yan.1 (To YANSA) America Requests Incursion into Yunnan (America Directly at War with PRC in this route
"The United States has requested our forces launch an immediate operation to liberate Yunnan from the communists. The United States recently started a war with the communist regime and appear committed to destroying it. The Americans stated their appreciation of our commitment to democracy in China and believe our operations would greatly aid their efforts to defeat the communists. Many of the commanders believe we should act now in the interest of China and to tie down Chinese forces. However, some of the commanders are urging caution, saying we would be operating outside the main American forces and would risk the annihilation of our forces. They believe we should decline the request and enter Yunnan at the time and place of our choosing."
Korean_War_Yan.2 (response) YANSA Agrees
"The Republic of China forces operating in Burma have agreed to our request for them to launch operations in Yunnan. This is welcome news for our operations. The Chinese will be stretched thin to defend its coast and borders, giving us the option to strike at their weak points. It will also legitimize our mission as liberators of China and champions to its democratic forces. We can expect reports of YANSA offensives in the coming days."
Korean_War_Yan.3 (response) YANSA Declines
"The Republic of China forces operating in Burma have declined our request for them to launch operations in Yunnan. This is a major setback for our war efforts. The participation of YANSA forces would have stretched the communists thin and given greater flexibility to our operations. The CIA believes the YANSA commanders were concerned of casualties and perhaps have grown too comfortable in their bases and control of the local drug trade."
Korean_War_Yan.4 Invasion of Yunnan? (Global)
"Reports from China and Burma indicate that a World War II era Republic of China Army has launched an invasion of communist China through the Yunnan province. The Peoples Republic of China promised an immediate retaliation and have downplayed the threat. However, this invasion may end up being disastrous as the communists will now have to commit troops to Yunnan as it engages in a direct war with the United States. The American government welcomed the news, calling it an intervention of a liberation force seeking to end communist tyranny."

Hungarian_Rev_UN.0 America Brings the Hungarian Issue to the UN
"The Secretary of State for the United States pledged it will soon bring the recent crisis to the Security Council and General Assembly for discussion. The Americans argue the popular uprising and Soviet intervention indicate the situation may soon escalate into open warfare and even civil war. It is hoped the Security Council could raise awareness to what is occurring in Hungary and condemn the suppression of its people. Many observers believe the American move will be largely symbolic as the Soviet Union controls a veto vote in the Security Council and is unlikely to support anything contrary to its interests."
Hungarian_Rev_UN.1 What to Propose?
"The situation in Hungary is critical. A successful uprising has removed the puppet Soviet communist leadership and the new regime in Budapest indicated its intentions to establish a more independent, and democratic regime. The Soviet Union has responded with an armed intervention, leading to intense street fighting between Hungarian revolutionaries and Soviet tanks. The United States has two options at the United Nations, we can propose a vote to the General Assembly, which will pass, that condemns the Soviet action and call for a full investigation. Which would be a major symbolic victory, or we could propose a United Nations Police Action at the Security Council, though to get it passed we would need to cooperate with the Soviets."
Condemn Soviet Aggression
"The United States has directed its foreign missions and top officials to condemn the Soviet invasion of Hungary. The American government cannot sit idly as Soviet tanks trample the rights and dreams of the Hungarian people. The American action appears to be limited to words at the moment, but its strong, public criticism will raise international awareness on the issue. The Soviet Union and its allies have responded by accusing the United States of hypocrisy, noting its lack of criticism when the rights of citizens in states allied to the United States are trampled on."
Propose UN Police Action
"The United States has proposed a United Nations Police Action to separate the Hungarian revolutionary forces and Soviet troops in Hungary. The American government argues the UN must intervene to ensure the protection and safety of the Hungarian people as well as guarantee their rights are respected. The United States wishes to find a tangible solution to the issue so has directed its top diplomats to approach the Soviet diplomats in order to come up with an acceptable resolution to the matter. Regardless, it will be a tough battle."
Hungarian_Rev_UN.2 American Condemnation of Soviet Aggression at the UN
"The United States proposed a resolution in the General Assembly calling for the Soviet Union to halt its intervention in Hungary. The resolution also urges the Secretary General to launch a full investigation into the intervention and determine what happened. The resolution passed with an overwhelming majority as some of the Soviets socialist allies chose to abstain to indicate their own disapproval of what they see as a heavy-handed Soviet response. Although the United States is congratulating itself for its success, many newspapers and Hungarian exiles note the resolution is largely symbolic."
Hungarian_Rev_UN.3 (To Soviets) Americans Propose Military Police Action in Hungary)
"The United States has approached us on their plan for introducing a resolution calling for a United Nations police action in Hungary. The American government notes the situation in Hungary is tense and at risk of spiraling out of control. On top of that there is wide international backlash to our actions. They propose that we support the deployment of United Nations forces to ensure a ceasefire and peaceful negotiation can occur to end the conflict. We insisted any UN force must work to disarm Hungarian rebels and must have Soviet observers to ensure their neutrality, the Americans agreed. One faction in Moscow believes supporting the resolution will restore Soviet prestige and negotiations are likely to succeed in keeping Hungary socialist. However, another faction believes we cannot trust the West and are on the verge of victory. We should use our veto power to reject the proposal."
Hungarian_Rev_UN.4 Soviet’s Veto Police Action
"The United States presented a resolution calling for the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers to Hungary. These forces would separate the hostile powers, disarm civilian militias and other armed groups, while ensuring a peaceful environment for negotiations between the Hungarian parties and Moscow. The Soviet Union was unimpressed, even with offers to be included in the UN mission. The Soviet ambassador lambasted the United States delegation and its hypocritic reaction to events in Hungary. It termed the issue a matter for the Hungarian people and that Soviet forces were keeping the peace already, at the invitation of the government. The Soviet Union went on to veto the resolution, ending any chance of its passing and sending a diplomatic defeat to the United States."
Hungarian_Rev_UN.5 UN Passes Police Action with Soviet Approval
"The United States presented a resolution calling for the deployment of United Nations peacekeepers to Hungary. These forces would separate the hostile powers, disarm civilian militias and other armed groups, while ensuring a peaceful environment for negotiations between the Hungarian parties and Moscow. The Soviet delegation responded positively, noting that its forces were already in the country on the invitation of the Hungarian delegation. It noted UN forces could help support the peacekeeping mission in place and provide greater transparency to the positive role the Soviet Union was playing to resolve the conflict. The Security Council then voted to approve the resolution. The United States views the resolution as a great victory. Analysts also believe, that despite the Soviet acceptance, the resolution represents a recognition by the Soviets that the situation was not being easily resolved through brute military force and it needed to change tact."

KW_EARLY.1 (To North Korea) 1951 Ceasefire Negotiations
"The South Korean puppet master, the United States, recently initiated ceasefire negotiations with our forces. Our revolutionary spirit and resistance have stalled their nefarious designs. Their immense wealth and advanced weaponry could not overcome our forces. At the moment, they hold tens of thousands of our comrades in prison camps undergoing intensive propaganda. Before any ceasefire can be achieved, we will demand these men be returned home. The Americans insist they will not forcibly repatriate any POWs but talks cannot continue unless they do."
KW_EARLY.2 The POW Question (Option to Return POWs or not)
"Our talks with North Korea over a ceasefire agreement stalled. The North Koreans are insisting we repatriate all their POWs. This goes against our present position that all POWs should be given the choice to either stay or be sent back. Many POWs express fears of being tortured or even killed if forced back. Others have converted to Christianity and fear religious persecution if returned. Giving into the communist demands would hasten the end of the conflict, however, it would go against all we stand for and alienate the American public. Or we could stick to our stance until the North Koreans drop the demand, they are taking the full brunt of the war and will likely give in in time."
KW_EARLY.3  (To North Korea) UN Agrees to Return POWs
"The capitalist stooges agreed to our just demand to return all our POWS. Their scheme of using our comrades for their propaganda purposes and to undermine our revolution has been thwarted. Once our men are returned, we can begin the process of debriefing and reeducation as needed. This removes the final hurdles to our ceasefire talks. Soon, this long struggle will come to an end. We can begin the process of rebuilding our nation and preparing to complete the sacred mission we started."
KW_EARLY.4 North Korea Agrees to Ceasefire (American Event)
"After difficult talks, the North Koreans have finally agreed to a ceasefire. Our long struggle in Korea has ended. The American people can be proud that its soldiers carried out their duty and our government completed its commitment to the United Nations mission. Despite desperate odds, against an overwhelming communist force, our men held the line. The United States has demonstrated it will stand ready to counter violent communist expansion wherever it occurs. International communism will now think twice before threatening any free nation."
KW_EARLY.5 Ceasefire in Korea (Global Event)
"The Korean War has come to an end following the announcement that North Korea and the United Nations have agreed to a ceasefire. The conflict began with a surprise invasion of South Korea by North Korea. The communist North Korea government sought to forcibly reunify Korea under its rule. However, the United Nations voted for an intervention led by the United States. After heavy fighting, the conflict had evolved into a bloody stalemate between both sides. With neither party able to gain the upper hand, a ceasefire was signed that will restore the prewar borders. The international community has largely welcomed the end of the fighting."
KW_EARLY.6 (North Korea) UN Refuses to Repatriate POWs (Option to Continue the War (Historical) or give up on getting back the POW who did not want to return to the PRC+DPRK
"The treacherous Americans and their puppet allies have refused our just request that all POWs be repatriated to their home country. They insist that every POW will be given the choice to repatriate or remain in the corrupt south. No doubt their extensive propaganda campaign has yielded some successes, which they will use to embarrass us. Many in the Central Committee believe the only response is to continue the war. Once the enemy is sufficiently bled, they will give in to their ridiculous stance. Others however believe the fighting has gone on long enough, and that we should trust the revolutionary vigor of our men. They urge we drop our demand and end the fighting to begin the rebuilding of our nation. In their eyes, those who refuse to return were traitors from the beginning and will be dealt with when we complete the unification of our people."

